3D Body Scanner and Printer	Transportation Building	103	"Makers UIUC will have a 3D Body Scanning Machine, allowing individuals to create miniature 3D printed models of themselves! Using the scanning machine built by Makers member, a Microsoft Kinect will scan your entire body as you are rotated on a turntable, ensuring high levels of detail. Using Skanect software, the scans can then be exported into 3D models and will be electronically sent to the MakerLab (in the BIF) to be printed. Visitors can then return to the EOH exhibit to pick their scans up when they are completed."	Mechanical Science and Engineering	3D Exemplar Deformation	Siebel Center	Southwest Atrium	"This project aims to estimate the 3D shape of unseen objects by deforming known 3D models. The exhibit will involve capturing 2D images of objects (e.g. cup) annotated with some correspondences (e.g. colored stickers and markings) using a camera connected to a computer. The 3D pose and shape estimation results will be shown on a monitor, interactively."	Computer Science	3D Imaging and Augmented Reality	Coordinated Science Laboratory	B15	Come to see our latest developed technology in 3D imaging and augmented reality using new commodity devices.	Electrical and Computer Engineering	http://minhdo.ece.illinois.edu/"3D Printing, Scanning, and Modeling!"	Transportation Building	207	"Ever seen a 3D print of someone's face? Come scan your hand or head and see it on the computer and 3D printed! You can also experience first-hand the process of scanning real-world objects, processing these scans using reverse engineering software, and outputting watertight STL files for 3D printing or mesh data that can then be imported into CAD! Come see how Obama's bust was made, check out posters of current student's inventions, and view the scanner pipeline in action! We have giveaways printed with our own 3D printer, so make sure you come before they run out! "	Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering	A Root Awakening	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"In short, we aim to build an automated hydroponic herb garden. We plan to build a hydroponic gardening setup using the Nutrient Film Technique (NFT). This setup places the plants through holes in a hollow tube. A thin layer of nutrient-containing water will then be pumped continuously through the tube, hydrating the roots and guiding their growth along the bottom of the tube. A slope in the tube allows for the water to flow into a reservoir and get pumped back into the tube. Multiple tubes will be set up in series and in a rack to reduce the physical footprint. A micro-controller will be used to monitor and control the pH, temperature, and nutrient content of the nutrient reservoir, as well as the flow rate from the pump. This project was chosen for its application of chemical engineering concepts including fluid dynamics, diffusion, and control systems. It will also result in a product that may be used to provide nutrition to those without access to fresh fruits and vegetables."	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	A Symphony of Lights	Siebel Center	1304	"The idea behind our project is that a user should be able to walk up to the device and open a music application such as Spotify, Pandora, etc. on their smartphone and connect via bluetooth to our project. This would create a colorful light show based on the frequencies of their music for the pleasure of our audiences. From a technical standpoint, the way this works is that several raspberry pi's will be connected to the LED lights. The system will part the music into various frequencies, each of which will produce a different color. The entire system will work via bluetooth through connection to a master computer. "	Computer Science	AIAA Autonomous Vehicles	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	The AIAA autonomous vehicles group is working on designing and building an Autonomous Multirotor for the 2015 Sparkfun Autonomous Vehicles Competition. Our main goals and objectives are to: 1) Design a multirotor based on competition specifications and guidelines. 2) 3D model a multirotor frame and perform stress analysis based on different geometries and build materials. 3) Develop code to run a myriad of sensors to autonomously navigate a course and complete challenges like popping moving balloons in flight. 4) Code a camera tracking system to find and recognize targets in flight. 5) Learn about manufacturing while building the multirotor frame using materials ranging from aluminum to carbon fiber. Come check out our hexacopter before it participates in the Sparkfun competition and learn about the wonders of autonomous flight!	Aerospace Engineering	http://aiaa.ae.illinois.edu/tech/AIAA Educational Outreach	Talbot Lab	103	One of the two features of this exhibit will be the AIAA Skeletal Plane. This plane was designed in the NX9.0 CAD program to be a Boeing 737-300 Series. It was then laser cut from acrylic and assembled so it can give an overview of the structure of aircraft. The other feature of this exhibit is the AIAA Flight simulator. Featuring 3 monitors and simulated aircraft controls and gauges the simulator allows anyone to be a pilot. Over the year the students involved in AIAA tech have worked on upgrading the simulator to provide the best experience for students.	Aerospace Engineering	http://aiaa.ae.illinois.edu/tech/AIAA Jetcat	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	"The AIAA Jetcat is a miniature version of a jet engine. Producing over thirty pounds of thrust at over 100,000 rpm, this is an exciting exhibit where people of all ages can learn about the inner workings of jet engines. In addition, this jet engine was used by the AIAA students to conduct research into various nozzle designs for thrust testing."	Aerospace Engineering	http://aiaa.ae.illinois.edu/tech/AIAA Rocket Races	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	"Rocket Races is an annual EOH exhibit by the American Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics chapter at UIUC. The exhibit features  a race between two rockets, every hour along guide-wires over Boneyard Creek. At the exhibit, different types of rockets are on display to showcase the field of rocketry. Pre-race voting will take place to determine favorites to win the race."	Aerospace Engineering	http://aiaa.ae.illinois.edu/tech/Aircraft Safety and Automation	Coordinated Science Laboratory	New Robotics Lab	"This exhibit gives an overview of some of the research that is currently being conducted at the Advanced Controls Research Laboratory. In particular, we will focus on two main areas of research: 1) Aircraft loss-of-control (LoC) prevention and upset recovery. 2) Cooperative Control of Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS). To illustrate the results in the first field of research, visitors will be able to pilot a transport class aircraft in our flight simulator, take the aircraft beyond the safe flight envelope and experiment the improvements in the handling qualities when the intelligent automation is engaged. Additionally, some of the UAS used in our research will be displayed, as well as some simulation videos that illustrate the cooperative motion of a fleet of UAS."	Aerospace Engineering	http://naira.mechse.illinois.edu/AirMouse	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	2nd floor atrium	"Airmouse is a 3D mouse developed on Arduino Leonardo. We noticed that people are increasingly reluctant to move their hands away from the keyboard as workload grows. Therefore, we designed AirMouse to free the millions of hands tired of moving their arms. With AirMouse, they only need to move their fingers to control the mouse.  AirMouse is a pair of rings connected to each other through wires, and it implements exactly the same functions as the trackpad of Macbook and normal mice. Double tap for both left and right finger to turn on/off AirMouse, left single tap and right single tap (like normal mice), left tap plus right tap for activating 'scrolling' to enable users to scroll up/down the pages (like Mac trackpad). We hope that the intuitive and accurate AirMouse can bring convenience and help more in people's daily life."	Electrical and Computer Engineering	American Nuclear Society 	Transportation Building	206	"The exhibit will include demonstrations from the three tracks of the Nuclear, Plasma, and Radiological engineering tracks. There will be informational posters made by the Underclassman Round Table about each of the concentration areas. For the power concentration we will use the mouse trap reactor and a cloud chamber and discuss how they fit into the nuclear world. For the plasma concentration we will use a DC glow chamber, a can crusher, and the Underclassman Round Table is building a gliding arc chamber. The radiological track will be represented by Geiger counters and an RC car that also detects radiation. This car is currently under construction. "	"Nuclear, Plasma, and Radiological Engineering"	Anchors Aweigh	Transportation Building	204	Come one come all and test your engineering and boat making skills! Participants will be given a limited amount of tin foil and other supplies to design and build a boat to hold the most pennies while staying afloat. Learn how to work with a budget and limited materials and have a blast doing it!	Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering	Arago's spot	Micro and Nanotechnology Lab	Atrium	A diffraction experiment that shows the wave nature of light. An LED or laser will be used and produce a bright spot from constructive interference when passing through an opaque object.	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Arduino Key-less Door Unlocker	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	1st floor atrium	"In this project we are using Bluetooth to send data and instructions back and forth between the Arduino chip and Android phone. We created a mechanical armature with laser cut acrylic and several nuts, bolts and screws that attaches to the door lock and servo motor. Also, we connected some LED strips to a circuit controlled by the Arduino chip. We have the ability to lock and unlock the door as well as change the color pattern of the LED strips. "	Computer Science	Bandagel: A Biomedical Application of 3D Printing	Digital Computer Lab	East Atrium	"Want to learn more about 3D printing and how it can be applied to medicine? If so, stop by and learn more about our product: Bandagel! This is a new type of bandage that is comprised of hydrogel patches and we will describe the advantages that it has over current bandages. Using a technique called stereolithography, we are able to use light from an overhead projector and Microsoft Powerpoint to print 3D objects with high resolution and at fast speeds. Visitors are encouraged to use our 3D printers during the demonstration and take home what they have created."	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/Bioengineering Senior Design Projects	Digital Computer Lab	East Atrium	Come see what the Bioengineering seniors have been up to all year!	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/Biopotential Manipulation Gauntlet	Digital Computer Lab	East Atrium	"Our project is a prototype bio-potential gauntlet. This wearable device will be capable of detecting nuero-muscular potentials and interpreting these signals in order to interact with electronic devices. A program will be written to recognize EMG signals from the wearer's body (transmitted through integrated electrodes) and transmit commands to a nearby computer. We plan to use the device to manipulate music selection and playback, although we have hopes of using the device to possibly go as far as to play simple games."	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/Blobs in a Bottle: The Chemistry Behind the Lava Lamp	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"We will be making two models of the lava lamp--one simple model using kitchen supplies and one advanced model using benzyl alcohol and saline solution. Engineers took the simple oil and water design and created the advanced lava lamp we recognize today. The chemistry behind the lava lamp lies in thermodynamics and a discussion of why some substances do not mix. The answer is simply that different intermolecular forces between polar and non-polar substances make the energy yield from mixing less than the energy required to mix them together. The simple model will use vegetable oil and water with food coloring and an Alka-seltzer tablet to make the reaction happen.  The advanced model will utilize the similar properties between benzyl alcohol stained with ink and a saline solution, using a hot plate or light bulb to make the convection take place."	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	BracketOdds March Madness: Automated Bracket Generation	Siebel Center	Southwest Atrium	"With the NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Championship Tournament beginning on March 17, sports enthusiasts are preparing to fill out their brackets this weekend. BracketOdds is a research project led by Professors Sheldon Jacobsen and Douglas King, and grad student Arash Khatibi. It uses the recently-devised power model for generating statistically-sound brackets for the NCAA March Madness tournament."	Computer Science	http://bracketodds.cs.illinois.edu/Brick Break	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	We will be breaking bricks in different ways and explaining why they break the way they do.	Materials Science and Engineering	Build Your Own 3D Printer	Transportation Building	101	Participants will use a simple 3D printer made from an office projector and common objects. They will print small plastic objects to take home. Resource links will be provided to anyone interested in making their own printer.	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://nano-cemms.illinois.edu/materials/3d_printing_full.htmlBuild-a-Bots	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2009	Build-a-Bots will be an exhibit where Middle School age kids will be able to construct a simple robot in 5-10 minutes and then use an Xbox controller to use it to play a game.	Mechanical Science and Engineering	BuildingGen: Procedural 3D Building Generator	Siebel Center	Northeast Atrium	Procedural generation of 3D buildings based on context-sensitive shape grammars. Buildings are generated according to a set of production rules which allow for stochastic modeling. Programmed in Python as a plugin for Blender 2.73.	Computer Science	CampusCal	Siebel Center	Northwest Atrium	"The issue at hand is that there is currently no single resource that a University of Illinois student can turn to discover new events across the entire campus. Furthermore, there is no resource that learns and is personalized especially for the user. Projects out there that already exist also lack a user-friendly interface that enhances the overall experience. Resources that do provide lists of events are not comprehensive and inclusive. They generally are specific to a certain type of event. There are multitudes of sites that provide upcoming events, but are very specific. For example, Office of Inclusion & Intercultural Relations (OIRR) have a ""Lunch on Us"" program where the cultural houses on campus and Women's Resource Center and LGBT Resource Center take turns every day of the week providing free lunch for students. This list is found only in the respective organization's websites. Furthermore, the career services (Engineering, Business, General Campus) often invite companies to speak on campus."	Computer Science	http://campuscal.me/Can you fake coin tosses?	Siebel Center	Northwest Atrium	"Faking random data is incredibly hard! Test your skills at faking a sequence of coin tosses using our interactive fake coin toss detector, which runs your sequence through a number of tests and assigns a fakeness score to it. Similar technology has been used to catch cheaters at income tax returns, accounting statements, election returns, and polling data."	Computer Science	Center for Nanoscale Science and Technology (CNST)	Micro and Nanotechnology Lab	Atrium	"Explore nano@illinois research opportunities at high school, undergraduate and graduate students levels.  Get familiar with ongoing multidisciplinary projects and centers addressing global challenges in agriculture and food, energy, biomedical devices, and others."	Nanoengineering	http://www.nano.illinois.eduCenter for Nanoscale Science and Technology Student Initiative (CNST-SI)	Micro and Nanotechnology Lab	Atrium	"Engage in hands-on activities and demonstrations that highlight nanotechnology. We will explore some current applications, including consumer products, toys, and crafts that integrate nanoscale features. Test your knowledge of nanoscale science and technology with a fun quiz -- with prizes -- at our exhibit! (Please come visit us on Friday as we will not be open on Saturday.)"	Nanoengineering	http://www.nano.illinois.eduChapswag	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"Our group will be making homemade chapstick out of all natural materials that can be easily found in any supermarket. It is a cost effective, environmentally friendly, and efficient way to make something people use every day, and is directly related to a chemical engineer's real job in industry."	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Charge Up Energy Education	Coordinated Science Laboratory	1237	"The saying ""knowledge is power"" is never more true than when people are looking to reduce their household energy consumption or understand national debates on energy policy. The Trustworthy Cyber Infrastructure for the Power Grid (TCIPG) center provides a range of community learning opportunities. View demonstrations of science kits for learning about the smart grid, electricity, and renewable energy sources. Learn about free curriculum resources."	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Charge your phone...through walls!	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"Through the laws of alternating magnetic fields, an electric current is created.  This current, or flow of electrons, can be used to charge devices, even with other objects in between the source and the device.  Every device has a natural frequency, so the power source needs to emit magnetic waves that resonate at a frequency that matches the natural frequency of the device being applied on.  The power source will have an alternating current (AC) running through two coils to produce an oscillating magnetic field.  This magnetic field can propagate and dissipate at a certain distance (depending on the strength).  These magnetic waves can induce an oscillating magnetic field on other electronic sources such as a phone, thus creating a current, which charges the phone."	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Chem-E Car	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"We are a team that builds a car to compete in the Chem-E-Car competition held by AIChE, (the American Institute of Chemical Engineers). The goal of the competition is to demonstrate control over some sort of chemical reaction that's energy can be used to move our car precisely a certain distance while carrying a payload of water. To make it more challenging, the distance and amount of water are told to us an hour before the competition, making it necessary to conduct testing and research to predict your car's distance beforehand. We plan on showcasing the hydrogen fuel cells used to power our car along with the color changing reaction we use as a timer to stop our car, demonstrating practical applications of physics, programing and chemistry."	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	"Chemistry of ""Magic"""	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"The exhibit will take magic tricks that have some basis in chemistry and attempt to explain the chemistry behind them.  Tricks may involve floating paper on dense gases, seeming to control the color change of liquids (like ""Turning water into wine""), seeing a bill on fire but it is not actually burning, etc.  "	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	http://alphachisigmazeta.orgChocolate 3D Printer	Mechanical Engineering Lab	1st floor	A 3D printer that can print the name of a kid onto a bar of chocolate.	Mechanical Science and Engineering	Chocolate Injection Molding	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2005	"The exhibit demonstrates the injection molding process using chocolate.  Using an aluminum mold, the chocolate is liquified, injected into the mold, cooled, and ejected."	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://asme.mechse.illinois.edu/Cleaner Energy	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"We will be exhibiting types of alternative energy like hydroelectricity, wind power, solar power, etc. There will be a turbine showing how electricity can be produced from flowing water as well as some other clean energy simulations."	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Cloud Chamber	Loomis Lab	Lobby	We will construct a cloud chamber in order to see traces of particles from radioactive decay in the alcohol vapour.	Physics	Combotics Robobrawl	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	1st floor atrium	"The Combotics Robobrawl is a reincarnation of the former tv series ""Battlebots"" in which radio controlled robots battle one another head to head in a gladiator style tournament. Sparks and scraps will fly in an enclosed polycarbonate arena as the combat robots move up to the next match or into the scrap bin in this double elimination style tournament. These robots will be in the 15lb weight class and feature weapons from large spinning disks to hammers to pneumatic flippers. "	Electrical and Computer Engineering	http://www.irobotics.illinois.eduConcrete Canoe	Newmark Hall	Crane Bay	"The exhibit will present the work it takes to try to build a concrete canoe. There will be a hands-on activity comparing different types of concrete, seeing what causes the specimens to float."	Civil and Environmental Engineering	http://www.cee.illinois.edu/Concrete Coasters	Newmark Hall	Crane Bay	Visit our booth to cast your own concrete beverage coaster customized any way you like! These functional souvenirs cure quickly while you experience the other civil engineering exhibits at Newmark Lab. 	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Crowdsourcing: Three's a Crowd	Siebel Center	1302	"We're figuring out how to productively waste time. The modern world is much better at creating data than doing anything with it. New techniques such as crowd-sourcing attempt to remedy the need for high quality, high quantity data analysis. However, the individual tasks that workers perform are often uninspiring, and at times degrading. We're going to show that fun games with a purpose might just be the future."	Computer Science	http://westillneedtobuyadomain.comDance your Degree 	Digital Computer Lab	West Atrium	Get ready to dance! This fun exhibit teaches you about the groundbreaking research in Bioengineering through the universal language of dance! Come learn about how molecules move within the body and how Engineering at Illinois is making strides toward better health. We'll break down the moves so anyone can learn the dances through several workshops throughout the day. 	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.eduDecellularizing Scaffolds	Digital Computer Lab	West Atrium	"There is a long list of donors for certain organs, such as heart or lungs.  One technique to reduce that list of people who need organs is through the method of decellularization.  Decellularization uses the combination of Materials Science and Bioengineering by the combination of many cleaning agents to reduce an organ to a simple scaffold consisting of collagen, laminin, as well as other basement membranes.  Post decellularization, new stem cells can be added to the organ to proliferate, hopefully to regain organ function in future work."	Bioengineering	Decontamination and Decomissioning	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	"Qualitative overview of Decontamination and Decommissioning of nuclear power plants and broad scope licensees. Regulatory aspects of decommissioning, responsibilities of parties involved, planning of a decommissioning project, management of waste, decontamination techniques, dismantlement techniques, financial planning, safety and radiation protection."	"Nuclear, Plasma, and Radiological Engineering"	DJ Roomba	Siebel Center	Northeast Atrium	A sweet music machine sent from the future to teach us how to party like it's 2999.	Computer Science	DNA Extraction	Digital Computer Lab	East Atrium	"Our project aims at teaching the younger audience about DNA through the extraction of DNA from strawberries. This will be a hands-on project that the children will be able to take home, if they wish. The ultimate goal is to spark an interest in science in the younger generation so that they may pursue careers in engineering later on. This will be achieved with our fun, yet education, experiment that not only teaches them about DNA but will also teach them about what makes them a truly unique individual. "	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/Dorm Room Fire Safety Demonstration	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	"This exhibit is intended to demonstrate the importance of sprinklers, smoke detectors, and other life-saving devices that protect us every day. Viewers will watch as a fire is started in two side-by-side rooms, one with a fire sprinkler and one without a sprinkler. In the sprinklered room, the fire's growth will be halted by the sprinkler, keeping temperatures well within survivable limits. in the unsprinklered cell, on the other hand, the fire will continue to grow until flashover conditions are reached, making the room unsurvivable, even for firefighters."	Engineering	http://www.illinisfpe.com/EBICS 	Micro and Nanotechnology Lab	Atrium	"We are building microscale robots out of biological materials and seek to understand the basic principles governing the behaviors of groups of cells. We are illustrating these principles by using interactive, hands-on demos with laser-activated robots, soft robotics, and smart materials.Our robot is using the principle of optogenetics to demonstrate how light is able to activate and change the behaviors of a system. Soft robotics and biocompatible polymers are the basis for the creation of microscale biological machines. And the use of  dielectric elastomers capable of storing and generating electrical currents reflect the capable for biological systems to use energy in diverse ways."	Bioengineering	http://www.ebics.netEco Illini	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	"Our team builds a vehicle to compete in the Shell Eco Marathon and SAE Supermileage competitions.  We will be displaying our vehicle along with our dynamometer.  We are going to run our engine on the dynamometer to demonstrate the tuning process: fuel injection timing, pulse width, spark timing, and air-fuel ratios.  In order to showcase our systems integration, we will also have the car opened up: braking, electrical and engine components will be exposed and explained.  In addition, there will be posters showing the design process and our progress over the years."	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://mechanical.illinois.edu/directory/faculty/mphilpotEERI - Earthquake Engineering Research Institute	Newmark Hall	Crane Bay	"Make-Your-Own Earthquake:  We have a small pad that those visiting our exhibit can jump on.  The force/acceleration that is produced as a result is recorded, and participants can take print-outs of the motions with them.Liquefaction Demo:  This is a new concept that we are tinkering with.  However, we are hoping to have one or two basins filled with saturated sandy soil that, when disturbed, cause toy structures to sink. This resembles the geotechnical phenomena known as liquefaction which occurs during some earthquakes.Display:  We also display a 5' tall balsa wood structure as an example of those we test annually at the EERI Seismic Design Competition."	Civil and Environmental Engineering	http://https://sites.google.com/a/illinois.edu/eeri/Egg Drop	Transportation Building	203	"Gamma Epsilon is putting together an Egg Drop exhibit, where participants will be given an egg and a certain amount of ""money"" that they will use to purchase materials such as cotton balls, newspapers, and rubber bands. Using their materials, they will design and build a vessel which will contain their egg and hopefully prevent it from breaking as it falls from a second-story window. The goal is for the participants to find the cheapest design that still keeps the egg intact."	Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering	Electricity Room	Loomis Lab	158	"The Electricity Room is one of SPS's legacy projects that we've hosted for many years.  We present a Jacob's Ladder, Ring Launcher, Oxford Bells, and Van de Graaf Generator.  We're also looking to bring in our Ionocraft project (registered independently)."	Physics	Electronic Door Lock	Siebel Center	Southwest Atrium	A Raspberry Pi controlled door locking mechanism and lighting control system.	Computer Science	http://https://github.com/rohankapoorcom/Electronic-LockEnergy Harvesting - Self Sustainable DDR Machine	Digital Computer Lab	West Atrium	"Ever thought of how much energy is spent while walking or even dancing? Get ready to harvest some energy while dancing your heart out. Our exhibit is a model DDR Machine whose purpose is to show the potential of energy harvesting. The piezo patch transducers will act as the four plates of a DDR floor. There will also be an LED display for each plate. Step on any one of the plates, and the energy is harvested using piezoelectrics powering the arduino which in turn lights up the next position/positions to step on. This will keep going on as with each step, more energy is harvested. A self sustainable DDR machine will thus provide a fun way to understand energy harvesting as we 'step' towards a sustainable future. "	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/Engineering Music	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2nd floor	"At the ""Engineering Music"" exhibit, visitors will be able to explore the physics behind different aspects of music.  This exhibit will consist of four different stations both interactive and demonstrational.  The first station will explore how the length of an air column affects the pitch an instrument, like a clarinet, produces.  This will have an interactive aspect using containers of various sizes and shapes to explore the pitches they produce. The second station will explore the physics of sound waves as well as first, second, third harmonics on the guitar.  We will explore this using an electric guitar demonstration. The third station will explore how the placement of the air hole in an instrument affect the pitch it produces.  Straws will be given to individuals with cuts in different locations and they will be able to experience first-hand the different pitches they produce.  The fourth activity will be a demonstration also involving sound waves. We will making ""dancing oobleck""."	Mechanical Science and Engineering	Engineering Outreach Society Tower Comptetiton	MatSE Building	100	"Engineering Outreach Society aims to nurture interest in the sciences in elementary age students. This year, local 3rd and 4th graders built towers over the course of 4 weeks, aiming to for efficiency, height, and natural disaster proofing.The competition is designed to emphasize the importance of the engineering process, collaborative work, and design.Engineering Outreach Society works throughout the year with local elementary schools, covering a variety of STEM topics aimed at meeting teaching standards."	Physics	http://publish.illinois.edu/engineeringoutreachsociety/Engineering wonders	Digital Computer Lab	West Atrium	"There will be a wide variety of projects with no specific similarities or theme. We will be making a stirling engine that powers a paddle boat, clorox-water lights where visitors can take pictures inside a structure lit up by the lights, a chladni plate where sand moves into specific patterns depending on the frequency of the sound vibrating the plate, and putting a few foods into liquid nitrogen. "	Engineering	Engineers Without Borders Ntisaw	Newmark Hall	Crane Bay	"The Ntisaw Program within Engineers Without Borders is an international development partnership between students at the University of Illinois and the village of Ntisaw, Cameroon. The program was started to build a sustainable, clean water source in the village of Ntisaw to meet the community's water needs in the both the rainy and dry seasons. Our project aims to explain the design process for developing gravity fed water distribution systems. Our goal is to explain the various engineering principles used in designing and testing the water system. We also hope to give the public a brief overview of the project. We currently have a scaled-down paper mache model of the community which contains landmarks such as the springbox/water collection source, tanks, tap stands, schools, and houses. We would like to make this model more interactive by introducing a vinyl piping system on which marbles can be rolled to demonstrate to young audiences how gravity alone is sufficient to allow wat"	Engineering	"Exploring the Daily Grind: The Roasting, Brewing, and Decaffeination of Coffee"	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"This project investigates the major processes that coffee experiences after harvesting. The roasting process changes coffee from a hard, ""green"" bean lacking flavor to the coffee beans we love to smell and ensure are always stocked at our houses. The roast process is scientifically complex, with various stages and chemical reactions taking place. You will learn what stages the coffee bean goes through as it becomes our beloved roasted bean, along with what ""levers"" a roaster can manipulate to change the final product. Almost as important as roasting is the brewing process. The expensive brewed cup of coffee  from the corner coffee shop tastes different than the one we brew in our coffee pot- why is that? We will explain the major differences among brewing methods and how each affects the flavor of the coffee. The last process we explored was decaffeination- come learn what processes are used to take the pep out of your cup o' joe."	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Fab-ulous Antibodies	Digital Computer Lab	East Atrium 	"Antibodies are the superheroes of the immune system. Now they can be engineered for treating diseases like cancer. This fun, hands-on exhibit will teach you about how antibodies ""fit"" into treating diseases, much like how puzzle pieces fit together! "	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.eduFermentation and Brewing Science: The Science of Making Beer	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"It has been said that the advent of agriculture and farming by early humans was to make better wheat in order to to make better beer, and that every major advance since then, from irrigation and aqueducts to electricity and computers, has been to make even better beer. So come learn about the process behind brewing beer. From the mash to the wort to the final product, learn about the start to finish behind one of the world's oldest drinks. We'll show you everything you need, from the different ingredients you can use to the containers and fermentation vessels, to each step in the fermentation process, so you too can start making our very own beer. "	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Ferrofluid and Magnetism	Digital Computer Lab	West Atrium	"Demo of magnetic fluid (ferrofluid) and a poster describing the history and science of magnetism. The ferrofluid demo would be in glass jars where visitors could use magnets provided to experiment with the effects of different magnetic fields on the ferrofluid. The poster would describe the nature of magnetic fields, relevance to current technologies, and a brief mathematical description. "	Bioengineering	Flavor Tank	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"The goal of our project is to demonstrate a simple creation of an ordinary snack through the basic ideas of general chemistry including:  reactants and products, limiting reagents, and other stoichiometric concepts.  The appeal of a tasty, ice cream treat combined with chemistry makes seemingly difficult calculations easy to understand.  Representative of the reactants, the needed ice cream ingredients as well as the liquid nitrogen will be presented in terms of necessary ratios of a corresponding balanced equation in order to yield the ice cream product."	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	FlipWord	Siebel Center	1302	"FlipWord is a passive language learning software. With only a slight modification to web browsing habits, an individual can acquire and retain vocabulary using spaced repetition that takes no time from one's busy schedule. Material can be learned long-term, with no studying overhead.The most important component is a Chrome extension. FlipWord retains a user's learning history, and using that information can analyze a page to determine the most impactful single word. All of that word on the page are then 'Flipped' to the translation in the intended language. This incorporates cross-language synonyms, definitions, images and more to wedge knowledge into memory over time, and hold it in place.The default content utilizes language data based on frequency, and will progressively increase  in word difficulty. User's may also upload custom word-lists. On a server, the system generates bi-language relationships which become the learning material.There are also several integrat"	Computer Science	Floating Frying Pan	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	4024	"Floating Frying pan will be demonstrated using coil of wire. From induced electric currents that are induced in the pan, the pan will be warm enough to make delicious marshmellow treats"	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Fluid Mechanics 101	Hydrosystems Lab	Hydrosystems Lab	At Hydrosystems water is our business. Explore with us fundamental properties of fluids  through simple experiments	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Fluids for Fun 	Engineering Hall	106B3	"Turbulent flow visualization, and possible some maneuvering challenge with toy submarines.  "	Physics	Fluids Frenzy	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2005	"The exhibit will include several interesting examples of fluid mechanics, including:-The response of a Non-Newtonian Fluid to different frequencies when placed on a speaker cone-A Cartesian Diver using an eye dropper and a 2-liter bottle-Demonstration of surface tension using plastic cards, dish soap, and a pool of water-Demonstration of Laminar flow using corn syrup, food coloring, and a pair of concentric rotating cylinders"	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://asme.mechse.illinois.edu/Fly a Quadcopter with the Mind	Mechanical Engineering Lab	1005	"Our exhibit will showcase neural headsets, machine learning, and robotics to allow participants to operate a quadcopter, we have 3d printed and assembled, using a neural headset. By finding patterns in a participant's brain waves with a powerful machine learning algorithm, we can determine when a participant wants the quadcopter to rise, fall, turn, or go forward.  Participants can safely fly a quadcopter while learning about exciting advances in quadcopters, machine learning, and neural engineering now and in the future."	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Food for Thought	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"Food for Thought is a collection of seven experiments to demonstrate science concepts using various foods. This includes lighting up pickles by running a voltage through them and dipping a light bulb in an electrolyte solution like Gatorade to demonstrate conductivity, creating a density tower of different liquids to demonstrate the effects of density, expanding marshmallow Peeps in a vacuum chamber and letting the atmosphere push an egg into a bottle to demonstrate air pressure, placing a toothpick with dish soap on it into a bowl of water and pepper to demonstrate surface tension, and creating glowing eggs and Jell-O to demonstrate osmosis and fluorescence. Food for Thought is intended for all ages and includes fun experiments that can be safely done at home."	Physics	http://physics.illinois.edu/Fracking facts	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"Focus on three main areas1)Procedure and effectiveness of fracking  -How high pressured fluid creates fractures to release natural gas  -How the natural gas is collected and refined  -Cost of different components needed for fracking  -The amount of energy produced over the past few years and how it compares with oil  -How much natural gas the US can potentially produce and where they are located2) Environmental damages and relevant regulations  -The extent and longevity of environmental damages   -Ways to reduce harm, before and after extraction  -Working hazards and prevention methods  -Current government regulations"	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Free Skies Drones	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	Free Skies is a startup by three UIUC Aerospace Students that aims to create autonomous drones for use in filmmaking and photography. We are a team participating in Cozad and have brought our first prototype to demonstrate our product!	Aerospace Engineering	http://www.freeskiestech.com/Freeze Drying	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"Come learn how you can freeze dry at home and check out a wide variety of freeze dried items including astronaut ice cream, fruit, and more!"	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Fruity DNA	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	"Ever wonder what DNA actually looks like? Come find out and get a chance to smash fruits to extract their DNA. Visitors will be able to learn about DNA, what it actually looks like, and keep a sample of their very own fruit DNA."	Materials Science and Engineering	Fun With Ferrofluids	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	"Ferrofluids are liquids with suspended nanoparticles that are sensitive to magnetic fields, and they can be transformed into many shapes. Visitors can participate in a hands-on activity where they get to play with the fluids themselves. Come learn how they work at our booth!"	Materials Science and Engineering	Fun With Polymers - From Silly Putty to Shattering	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	"Come see the science behind everyone's favorite childhood toy Silly Putty! and enjoy a demonstration of what happens when a liquid nitrogen-dipped polymer and a hammer ""interact"". This exhibit will reveal the mystery of cross-linking polymers and elastomers as well as display how mechanical properties vary with temperature. "	Materials Science and Engineering	Genetic Engineering	Digital Computer Lab	East Atrium	"Genetic engineering may make for a great plot in a sci-fi movie, but how does it affect our everyday lives? This exhibit will clear up some of the myths surrounding this exciting technology, examining the applications of genetic engineering to the fields of agriculture, medicine, and beyond. Come learn how genetic engineering is improving our lives, and see it in action by checking out our own culture of genetically modified, glowing bacteria!"	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/Get cool!	Mechanical Engineering Lab	1st floor	"We will exhibit an air-conditioning system to explain how a cooling system work. Also exhibited are the detail information about the parts of the cooling system: the evolution of heat exchangers, a transparent compressor and high speed camera video of two phase flow from our research lab."	Mechanical Science and Engineering	Girls' Club	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2006	"We are currently in a time where the percentage of women in STEM is growing; however, the percentages are still discouragingly low.  This exhibit will show girls how science affects various parts of the girls' world.  This exhibit will consist of four stations where girls will make take home experiments while learning how science and engineering contributes to producing them.  The first activity will be making ""lava lamps"".  This activity will explore density as well as chemical reactions.  The second activity is make your own jewelry.  This activity will explore non-newtonian fluids as well as failure analysis, in order to discover the perfect mixture for their jewelry pieces.  The third activity is silvering mirrors.  This activity will allow girls to learn about mixtures and chemical reactions as the Tollens reagent makes a mirror out of  a petri dish.  The final activity is DC motors.  This activity will teach the girls about motors and circuits as they are able to make a painting "	Mechanical Science and Engineering	Glow Discharge Chamber	Loomis Lab	Lobby	This exhibit displays a plasma discharge between two DC terminals in vacuum.	Physics	Got Filter?	Newmark Hall	Crane Bay	"This exhibit will demonstrate through audience interaction the process of basic water filtration displaying what different types of filters can/cannot do, what substances are commonly filtered, and the overall order of the process. Audience members will be asked to select which filters will be implemented and which sequence the water will be filtered. Audience members may also select which substances are chosen to contaminate the water."	Civil and Environmental Engineering	http://publish.illinois.edu/wef-awwa-uiuc/Groundwater flows	Hydrosystems Lab	Hydrosystems Lab	"Did you brush your teeth last night? Do you know where is that water coming from? Gigantic lakes, streams, and aquifers are right underneath our feet. In this exhibits we will show you how water moves underground, interacts with the surface, and why is so important for humanity."	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Haiti Clean Stove Project	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	"We are an RSO hoping to exhibit our innovative household cookstove that burns fuel cleaner and more efficiently. This low-cost stove burns cleaner and more efficiently thanks to Top Lit Up Draft (TLUD) technology, that allows the fuel to achieve microgasification before burning. We are dedicated to implementing this stove design into rural Haitian villages, where fuel for cooking costs families 40% of household income, deforestation is crippling to the environment, and health problems are arising from the use of charcoal cookstoves. We hope to demonstrate our stove technology, which provides a cleaner burn, as well as raise awareness about this cause."	Engineering	http://www.cleanstove.org/technology.htmlHazards of Modern Spillway	Hydrosystems Lab	Hydrosystems Lab	"Spillway dams are very common in Illinois, but very dangerous. Do you know why?"	Civil and Environmental Engineering	High Strength Concrete Demonstrations	Newmark Hall	Crane Bay	The American Concrete Institute Student Chapter at the University of Illinois provides a learning environment for students interested in all aspectsof concrete. Visit us to learn about what goes into making concrete and how to make it super strong. We will be demonstrating just how strong and explosive high strength concrete can be by crushing samples. 	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Homebuilt Airplanes	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	"Come see a working airplane engine, completed sheet metal airplane components, and hands-on aviation inspired activities. SAB showcases its work on the 2-seater, full scale,  Zenith STOL CH750 plane that will be completed in December 2015. Activities for kids of all ages include building your own balsa glider."	Aerospace Engineering	http://sab.ae.illinois.eduHovercrafts - Engineering Levitation!	Mechanical Engineering Lab	Entrance	The Pi Tau Sigma Design Project Team have designed and built a hovercraft that can levitate more than 6 inches off the ground! Visitors can experience levitation firsthand as they can sit on the hovercraft and feel what it's like to float off the ground.	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://pitausigma.mechse.illinois.eduHybrid Rocket Test Engine	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	"A unique opportunity to see a test fire of a real scale rocket engine! Our hybrid rocket design uses a clear acrylic tube as both the fuel and motor, and when fired, mounted to the test stand, both the ignition and burn inside the casing as well as the exhaust flame can be seen."	Aerospace Engineering	Hydraulic Fracturing	Loomis Lab	Lobby	This exhibit outlines the benefits and dangers associated with the use of fracking in the extraction of oil and natural gas.  Key points include the environmental and economic impact of the procedure along with technologies and safeguards used in the petroleum industry. 	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Hydraulics	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2005	Interactive display and demonstration of a hydraulic system. Visitors can operate it themselves and explore how a hydraulic system is controlled. Includes a poster to accompany display explaining the concepts behind it.	Mechanical Science and Engineering	Hydroelectricity	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2005	The exhibit will feature a working model hydroelectric dam.  The dam will light a set of lights to show the electricity generation. Most of the dam will be made from clear plastic to show the flow of water while the dam operates.	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://asme.mechse.illinois.edu/IEEE Intro to Soldering	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	1st floor atrium	"A small children's exhibit for teaching kids how to make blinking, interactive badges. We plan on ordering quantities of 400-500 badges to supply for the entire weekend. The badge will be small, and have a pin on clip onto shirts. Upon waving one's hand over the badge, it'll light up briefly. "	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Illini EcoConcept	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	We are one of the University's Eco Marathon teams exhibiting our 2015 hydrogen-fueled competition car and other interesting models.	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://illiniecoconcept.com/Illini EcoConcept	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	The Illini EcoConcept Team is a student run organization on the University of Illinois Engineering campus dedicated to designing and fabricating practical as well as energy efficient vehicles for the Shell Eco-marathon Urban Concept competition	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://illiniecoconcept.com/Illini Formula Electric	ESPL Lot	ESPL Lot	"Illini Formula Electric is an interdisciplinary organization that combines engineering students from all fields in addition to many non-engineers. The team's mission is to design and build a fully electric, formula-style race car while encouraging research, collaboration, and rigorous design standards within the team. Each year the team competes in an international competition against other electric car teams. "	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://www.illiniformulaelectric.com/home.htmlIllini Motorsports	ESPL Lot	ESPL Lot	"Illini Motorsports is the Formula SAE team at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Each year we design,manufacture, test and race a miniature Formula style race car. We compete at multiple competitions against 200+ teams from around the world. Our exhibit will feature our race cars along with student design parts, design posters and a driving simulator. EOH attendees will get to get up close to the race car, learn about how parts are designed, sit in the cockpit of the car and try their skills out on our driving simulator. "	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://motorsports.illinois.eduILLINI PULLERS	Digital Computer Lab	West Atrium	The ILLINI PULLERS is a student design team that builds a 1/4 scale pulling tractor every year to compete in an international competition. The exhibit will feature a pulling tractor and presentation board that describes the activities of the club.	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://abe.illinois.edu/Illinois Center for Transportation	Newmark Hall	Crane Bay	"People drive on roads every day, but most probably don't think about all of the research that goes into making the pavement we drive on safe, cost-effective, and long-lasting. This exhibit shows how pavement is made with a kid-friendly and tasty demonstration and shows what kinds of research goes on at the Illinois Center for Transportation."	Civil and Environmental Engineering	http://ict.illinois.eduIllinois Robotics in Space	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	1st floor south hall	"Illinois Robotics in Space (IRIS) designs and builds a robot every year for the NASA Robotics Mining Competition held at Kennedy Space Center. Stop by our booth to see this year's robot. Also, come play with the Microsoft Kinect and see how it works. "	Aerospace Engineering	http://iris.ae.illinois.eduIllinois Solar Decathlon	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	2nd floor atrium	"Illinois Solar Decathlon seeks to lead innovation in design and technology to advance towards an environmentally sustainable future. We bridge the legacy of past Illinois competition projects to the development of future successful teams. For our existing homes, we ensure their continual usage as a research and outreach platform. On campus, we engage in projects and foster relationships to educate and develop our organization. Through our integrated approach, we aim to elevate the standard of Solar Decathlon and ensure a true contribution to green building."	Civil and Environmental Engineering	http://solardecathlon.illinois.eduIndustrial Light and Magnets	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	"An ""electronic materials"" exhibit, showcasing how light behaves in optical materials such as prisms, lenses, different refractive indices, and diffraction gratings. Applications discussed, such as fiber optic cables.The other half of our exhibit will display a quantum-locked superconducting magnet. Applications of superconductivity at high temperatures discussed, such as long distance power transport."	Materials Science and Engineering	Intelligent lock	Siebel Center	Northwest Atrium	"Keys are an insecure and inefficient way of locking items or doors. The keys can be copied, and the locks can be picked.Our exhibit hopes to give users the option to lock their doors with something more secure and easy to use. By attaching our device on your door's lock, you can open your door by card swipe or rfid chip. This now allows you to control who has access, as you can add and remove others at your wish."	Computer Science	Interactive Fiction Game	Siebel Center	Southeast Atrium	Play a text based adventure game!	Computer Science	Investigating the Properties of Ferrofluids	Loomis Lab	Lobby	 We will preface the history and applications of ferrofluids and have all of this information on a poster board. We will also provide small samples of ferrofluids in small containers to allow for audience participation. We will also have a larger central display of ferrofluids.	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Invisible Glass	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	"Using a small and large beaker, we will make glass ""disappear"" by pouring in solution to demonstrate the optical properties of glass."	Materials Science and Engineering	Ionocraft v2	Loomis Lab	158	"Also known as an electrohydrodynamic thruster or a ""lifter"", an Ionocraft uses a high electric potential to accelerate ions that push against the air to provide thrust. These thrusters have been found to be remarkably efficient and may have applications in aircraft and cooling units. "	Physics	iRobotics Exhibit	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	1st floor south hall	iRobotics will be hosting an exhibit to show off some of the projects our members have worked on in the past in order to spark interest for those not familiar with robotics. We will have two or three poster boards with photos of our past events as well as two small-scale robots to drive around as a demonstration.	Electrical and Computer Engineering	http://irobotics.illinois.eduISE PhotoBooth!	Transportation Building	1st floor hallway	"Our exhibit is going to be a self-desihned photo booth, giving visitors the opportunity to take a photo and remember this event. Our exhibit consists of a computer controlled camera which is programmed to take a burst of photos at a click. These photos will then be emailed to the party when they provide their email ID."	Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering	ISS Technical Projects	Talbot Lab	104	"Illinois Space Society is UIUC's premier student organization for space related technical projects. We will be showcasing all of our current endeavors, including multiple (large) rockets and a theoretical design for a Mars base!"	Aerospace Engineering	Jet Engine Display	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	Jet Engine Display	Aerospace Engineering	Journey into the Cell	Digital Computer Lab	West Atrium	Step inside a cell and learn how it works with fun games and entertaining visuals.	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/KE-SSOOBLECK	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	"Explaining principles behind behaviors of non-Newtonian fluid (corn starch solution) and how it reacts with live band music. We all have seen how it behaves when a loud recorded music plays through speakers, but it is exciting to perform this scientific experiment, while playing live music."	Physics	https://www.facebook.com/KoreanEngineeringandscienceSocietyKey In: Innovative Garage Control Technology	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2nd floor	"A garage door opening device may not sound like something new, but this year Team Tech had the privilege of working with Chamberlain, where we had the opportunity to recreate the usual garage door keypad by adding new and exciting features. Along with a redesigned keypad, a mobile app has been created to work alongside with the keypad. The exhibit will have the recreated keypad and a garage door model that will demonstrate how everything works together. "	Mechanical Science and Engineering	Left 4 VR	Siebel Center	1302	"Most virtual reality experiences today are passive ones. We've all enjoyed Rift Coaster and the like, and these are promising first steps. But the promise of VR is true immersion. Our project is another step in the direction of immersion. We  have two components to our product - a glove and a nerf gun. Both of these components are fitted with enough sensors to let you forget that you're using a controller and let you focus instead on surviving in the zombie infested world of Left 4 Dead 2.This project is built with a special focus on Left 4 Dead 2 as we understand that a good virtual reality experience requires accuracy and finesse just as much as it requires general functionality. In this regard, while our project will work with most first person shooter games, we have intentionally built it to be great for Left 4 Dead 2."	Computer Science	http://challengepost.com/software/left-4-virtual-realityLEGO LEED	Newmark Hall	Crane Bay	"LEGO LEED teaches about the features of a 'green' home. Participants are given a pre-made LEGO house, to which they add features such as solar panels, green roofs, rain barrels, and other sustainable home components. They can also learn about the benefits of community connectivity and building on previously developed versus undeveloped land by choosing a location for their home on our LEGO LEED map. Using the LEGO LEED scorecards, we can certify participant's homes as LEED Certified, LEED Silver, LEED Gold or LEED Platinum."	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Lego Make an Earthquake	Newmark Hall	Crane Bay	"Students will be able to make their own Lego block structures and we will test them for structural stability using a shake table, which simulates the effects of an earthquake. We will explain why structures break and how they can be strengthened to withstand earthquakes."	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Lego MindStorms and Rubix Cube Solver	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2001	"Members of Pi Tau Sigma have programmed both autonomous as well as driver-controlled robots for visitors to enjoy. Robots will be involved in a soccer game where the objective is to score a ball in a goal on the other side of the field. In addition to the robots, visitors can see and observe an automated Rubix cube solver before their very eyes!"	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://pitausigma.mechse.illinois.edu"Lights, Liquid Nitrogen, Action"	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	"Have you ever wondered what would happen if you dipped an LED in liquid nitrogen? Do you just like seeing it in action? If so, stop by to our booth where we will be showing and explaining how the frigid temperatures of liquid nitrogen can change both the color and brightness of different lights!"	Materials Science and Engineering	Linear Induction Motor	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	4024	"A small scale induction motor will be showcased. Applications include magnetically-levitated trains, rail gun, roller coasters, and etc."	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Liquid Nitrogen Table	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"What happens when everyday items reach -320 degrees Fahrenheit? Come to the Liquid Nitrogen Table to find out as we explore the transitions between the gaseous, liquid, and solid phases of matter."	Physics	Little big river	Hydrosystems Lab	Hydrosystems Lab	"This unique meandering flume will allow you to explore the hydrodynamics of big rivers and how they affect human activities (ex. navigation, erosion/sedimentation control)"	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Localizing a Light Source via Distributed Optimization	Coordinated Science Laboratory	B17	"Distributed optimization is the problem of finding a globally optimal solution among a set of agents who only have access to local information. Each agent or node in the system has its own objective function it seeks to optimize against and local data it can use, but we would like the solution to be optimal for some function of all of the local objective functions. Furthermore, each node can only communicate with its direct neighbors and there is no central data collection or coordination. In this exhibit, we demonstrate one application of distributed optimization, where a testbed of wireless sensor nodes cooperate in this distributed manner to discover the location of a lamp."	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Magic Mirror on the Wall	Siebel Center	1304	"These are two ""magic"" infinity mirrors. Each mirror is made of LEDs placed between a normal mirror and a one-way mirror, which makes the light extend to ""infinity"". The mirrors are Internet-connected with the Spark Core, and have strips of metal around the outer frame to provide interactivity through capacitive touch. Come see the lights twirl into infinity!"	Computer Science	http://N/AMagnetic Eddy Currents	Loomis Lab	144	"A simple demonstration of a complex electromagnetic phenomenon. Dropping a normal object (like a rock or a penny) through a copper tube has no weird effects. However, dropping a powerful magnet through the tube will cause it to fall more slowly. We will demonstrate and explaining this phenomenon. "	Physics	Magnetic Levitation	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2005	"A visual demonstration of Lenz's Law, electromotive force and induced magnetic fields and flux, accompanied by a poster explaining the concept and potential practical applications of magnetic levitation. "	Mechanical Science and Engineering	Magnetic Ring Cannon	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	4026	"A Magnetic ring cannon is demonstrated. With the use of AC current and resulting magnetic field, force is created to propel a metal ring"	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Massaging Prosthetic Liner	Digital Computer Lab	East Atrium	"For those with prosthetic limbs, swelling and shrinking of the residual limb creates an improper fit between the leg and the prosthesis. This leads to great discomfort and hassle. Our group has designed and built a sleeve that could solve this problem; motorized, constricting bands massage the limb in a sequential pattern to prevent fluid buildup."	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/Maximum PowerPoint Tracking	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	4024	"In this demonstration, the panel load is adjusted to change the panel voltage and current. Maximum power point tracking is performed by measuring the change in power for each adjustment"	Electrical and Computer Engineering	MechSE Curriculum Showcase	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2nd floor	"As mechanical engineering students, we make a whole lot of unique and innovative devices that typically don't get seen outside of our professors' gradings and our classroom. This year, we're looking to change that with the MechSE Curriculum Showcase: an exhibit dedicated to hands-on projects of ME and TAM courses, presented by the engineers who designed them. Come check out our class projects!"	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://mechse.illinois.edu/coursesMetal with a Mind	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	"Nitinol looks and bends like an ordinary metal wire, but come see what happens when we add a little heat. No matter how you bend it, shape memory alloys will always return to their original shape when dropped in hot water. Stop by our exhibit to learn how these magical metals can be trained to ""remember""."	Materials Science and Engineering	Micro-Nano-Mechanical System Cleanroom Laboratory	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2nd floor	"This exhibit is designed to introduce visitors to the world of micro-nano-technology and the type of lab that devices such as integrated circuits (IC) or micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) are fabricated in.  We will discuss why a cleanroom is necessary when making such small products and displaying video footage of inside the MNMS Cleanroom which is part of the MechSE department.  The exhibit will have fabricated devices that visitors can inspect under a microscope and hold.  The exhibit will also show some of the novel micro-nano-technology work that is being completed here at UIUC as well as around the world.  We will also have someone gowned up in traditional cleanroom attire.  For those visitors that are students here at UIUC, we will encourage them to take the course that is taught inside the cleanroom.  It is a course that offers a truly unique lab experience. "	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://https://www-s.mechse.uiuc.edu/cleanroom/MNTL Cleanroom	Micro and Nanotechnology Lab	Atrium	"In this exhibit, we explore the realm that enables micro and nanotechnology research.  Specifically, we will provide tours of our 16 cleanroom laboratories, explain some of the infrastructure that supports them, and highlight why these special cleanroom environments are so important for cutting edge research.  Additionally, we will illuminate our state-of-the-art lab equipment, including an atomic force microscope (AFM), scanning electron microscopes (SEM), an electron beam lithography system, a nanoimprint lithography system, reactive ion etcher (RIE) systems, evaporators, sputtering systems, metal-organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) systems, and a molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) system.  This equipment is used in a wide variety of multidisciplinary research projects from optoelectronics to micro and nanoelectromechanical systems (MEMS/NEMS) as well as bionanotechnology. There will be hands on demonstrations and lab tours, and you will get a glimpse of what nanotechnology research "	Electrical and Computer Engineering	http://mntl.illinois.edu/Mobile Augmented Reality	Coordinated Science Laboratory	301	Our demonstration will show real-time object tagging and retrieval on off-the-shelf smartphones. Users will be able to tag random objects and retrieve them from different angles and time.  	Computer Science	Model ECE Building	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	1st floor atrium	A scale model of the ECE building. Its partially solar powered with controllable lights.	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Molecular Gastronomy	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"Molecular gastronomy is a type of food science that changes the way it looks by manipulating its physical and chemical properties, such as solid and liquid. In the process of spherification, liquids are shaped into spheres. In liquids that do not contain calcium, a small amount of sodium alginate and dripped into a cold solution of calcium chloride. A thin, flexible layer is created around the liquid. Our project will demonstrate how spherification can change ordinary juice into a fun snack! This can be accomplished using everyday items from a kitchen; sodium alginate and calcium chloride is easy to find online and dry ice is used to create a cold water bath quickly but at home, people can use the fridge. We will have enough materials for 500 servings to hand out. "	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Multistage Coil Gun	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	4024	"Using multiple capacitor banks and coils of wire, this coilgun launches projectiles with impressive speed."	Electrical and Computer Engineering	nano@illinois Research Experience for Teachers	Micro and Nanotechnology Lab	Atrium	"Come to the Transistor Manufacturing Simulation, where visitors can execute the steps in the manufacturing process of a simple n-p-n transistor using various colors of Play-Doh as the layers of the transistor components.  Visitors will move from station to station to simulate the processes of deposition, photolithography, and etching. In the end, the layers of a transistor will be clearly visible and the finished product can be taken home! (Please come visit us on Friday as we will not be open on Saturday.)"	Electrical and Computer Engineering	http://www.nano.illinois.edu/education/nanoret.htmlNanoSTRuCT: Nanoscale Science and Technology Resources for Community Teaching 	Micro and Nanotechnology Lab	Atrium	"NanoSTRuCT is a collaboration between the Center for Nanoscale Science and Technology (CNST), the Midwest Cancer Nanotechnology Training Center and the Cellular and Molecular Mechanics and Bionanotechnology IGERT training grant. Graduate students have partnered with the 3rd grade teachers at Booker T. Washington STEM Academy (BTW) to teach STEM concepts through nanotechnology and biotechnology inspired activities. BTW 3rd grade students will share the STEM concepts they have learned with the public during the NanoSTRuCT program in Spring 2015 at 3 mini-booths each supervised and assisted by University of Illinois graduate students."	Nanoengineering	Navigating America: How engineers made it possible	Hydrosystems Lab	Hydrosystems Lab	"Commercial navigation in American Rivers is possible because of locks, dams, and other hydraulic structures designed and built by engineers to have some control of the river.On a race-track flume we will show you how these structures are operated for a safer and efficient navigation."	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Nepal Biosand Filter Project	Newmark Hall	Crane Bay	"Come learn about water purification through the use of biosand filters in communities in Nepal. Our exhibit sports a running biosand filter along with a build-it-yourself miniature biosand filter station. Learn about our research that is conducted at the University of Illinois, along with the implication of the filters in Nepal and other developing areas."	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Neuro-controlled Assistive Technology	Digital Computer Lab	East Atrium	"Electroencephalography (EEG) could prove very useful in helping physically disabled patients return to a more functional lifestyle. An EEG headset uses surface electrodes placed on the scalp to measure electrical signals across the brain. Through analysis of these signals, a system can be controlled completely by a person's thoughts. This exhibit features a handmade neuroheadset that utilizes these EEG signals to control an assistive device. "	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.eduNumerical Landscape Evolution Models	Hydrosystems Lab	Hydrosystems Lab	"Table top (""toy"") model that will allow the audience to directly affect the evolution of a landscape by erosion and deposition of sediments transported in water."	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Oobleck	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	"Using cornstarch and water, we will demonstrate the properties of non-newtonian fluids. Visitors will be able to understand how non-newtonian fluids behave under different stresses."	Materials Science and Engineering	Oobleck Pool	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	"We all know we can walk on solids, but doesn't walking on a liquid sound far more interesting? Come join us at the Oobleck Pool to walk on a liquid and learn more about non-newtonian fluids!"	Materials Science and Engineering	Orbital Simulator	Talbot Lab	104	"Explore the physics of spacecraft orbits and even black holes with our hands-on gravity simulator! A large sheet of fabric weighted down in the middle represents the warped fabric of space-time, so you can try and put your satellite (marble) into orbit or just watch it fall into the black hole."	Aerospace Engineering	Organ On A Chip	Digital Computer Lab	East Atrium	"The current drug development cycle is costly, tediously long, and highly prone to failure, delaying promising new cures for years. The advent of organ-on-a-chip technology changes this. Organ-on-a-chip allows the simulation of the activities, mechanics, and physiological response of entire organs and organ systems for testing new medications even custom cures for one specific person."	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/Oxidation of Metals	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	"In this exhibit, we will be exploring the different ways that oxygen, the gas humans require to breathe, can be helpful or harmful to the metals we use. We will have a large amount of mild steel, some stainless steel, and we are playing with the idea of acquiring some amount of a refractory metal (probably molybdenum) that oxidizes extremely readily.We'll take a small piece of metal (roughly 1 by 3 inches), record the mass, and heat it up with a handheld torch of some kind (propane, butane, MAP/MAP-propane, etc) for about a minute. The higher temperatures increases the rate of oxidation much higher compared to room temperature. It will then be allowed to cool.  Once its cool, we will record the mass again. The mild steel should have a large relative mass gain (several grams), while the control stainless steel will no mass gain. The molybdenum, should we get some, will have a large mass gain as well.We will also have a poster showing some basic information on metal oxidation (s"	Materials Science and Engineering	Pedal for Power	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	4024	A bike generator will be demonstrated. the demonstration will include number of light bulbs and visitors will be able to learn how much human energy is needed to produce electric power	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Peeps in Spaaace!	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	Vacuums are useful in more than your Hoover vacuum cleaner! Vacuums can also be used to make things. Things also sometimes behave differently in a vacuum. What happens when you put water in a vacuum? What happens to a candle in a vacuum? Can you hear an alarm clock in a vacuum? What happens to Peeps or shaving cream in a vacuum?	Materials Science and Engineering	http://uiucavs.blogspot.comPerpetual Motion Machines	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2nd floor	"This exhibit will showcase different types of apparent perpetual motion machines (mechanisms that seemingly require no force to act upon them but in reality consume resources around them) that use gravity and fluid motion to function, such as Robert Boyle's Flask and Da Vinci's Idea."	Mechanical Science and Engineering	Pharmaceutical Engineering	Loomis Lab	Lobby	An overview of the process of pharmaceutical development and the application of chemical engineering principles in the manufacturing process.  This exhibit features the process of producing pure penicillin from a mold culture of penicillium chrysogenum.	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Photoelasticity & Exploding Glass	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	"See how engineers can determine an object's internal stress by using polarized light, revealing dazzling displays of color, then discover the explosive mechanical properties of Prince Rupert's drops."	Materials Science and Engineering	Physics Van Lecture Demos	Loomis Lab	151	"Come learn some of the most important concepts of physicsin this fun and exciting Lecture Demo Show. Join us if you get excited about Newton and Bernoulli, about gravity, momentum, electricity, and more, or if you enjoy watching things blow up."	Physics	Piano Man	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	"Come see how electronic materials such as piezoelectrics and LEDs can be used to make a musical keyboard, built with student-designed 3D-printed parts! Then learn about how each of these materials work, and find out where they're used in your everyday life!"	Materials Science and Engineering	Pinball Machine	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2nd floor	"At the ""Pinball Machine"" exhibit, we will have a fully functional pinball machine for visitors to try.  This interdisciplinary project will combine all areas of engineering from mechanical to computer science to build and code the pinball machine.  This pinball machine will be a table top design and will be fully interactive for those visiting the exhibit.  We will be able to explain both the mechanics behind building the machine as well as the electrical components that make up the LED display on the backboard.  This exhibit will be both technical as well as interactive, which will allow for visitors to have a truly enjoyable experience."	Mechanical Science and Engineering	Pollution You Can't Pinpoint	Hydrosystems Lab	Hydrosystems Lab	"We can monitor and control pollution coming from treatment plants, factories, or urban sources, but how do we deal with pollution that comes from all over the landscape?  This type of pollution is called non-point source pollution, and includes fertilizers applied to farmlands that run off into ditches during rain events.  These fertilizers are nitrogen and phosphorus that help plants grow, but can cause environmental problems when they enter a ditch or river. This exhibit demonstrates nonpoint-source pollution from farmland and urban areas using drink mix powder ""pollutants"" and introduces different ways to filter the pollutants or solve the problem of excess nutrients in steams."	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Poverty Simulation & International Development Trivia	Engineering Hall	East Hallway	"Visitors would be exposed to certain realities that under served communities face on a daily basis. For instance, the lack of accessibility to convenient and safe water, proper sanitation, electricity, etc. The simulations are conveyed through interactive activities. i.e: walking while carrying gallon jugs of water, observing real-world latrine models & potentially designing latrine prototypes, assessing reliance and dependence on electricity from simple surveys that converts responses into an electricity reliance index to show participants where they stand on a global scale. Additionally, there would be a trivia that aims to enlighten visitors on basic concepts and common challenges in the international development space. Patrons would be greeted with a brief intro on EWB and what we do through service learning in our various projects before engaging in a brief trivia challenge. The hope is that participants would become more aware of challenges faced in the developing world and are i"	Engineering	http://www.ewb-usa-uiuc.org/Power Grid Monitoring Device	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	1st floor south hall	This exhibit demonstrates the operation of phasor measurement units and their application to grid reliability. 	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Power of waves	Hydrosystems Lab	Hydrosystems Lab	"Take a look to the effect of the waves at bottom of the deep ocean on our Large Oscillatory Sediment-Water Tunnel, one of the largest in the world!"	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Principles of ChemE	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"In this project we will explain the fundamentals of chemical engineering in an easy to grasp ""explain it like I'm 5 years old"" manner. We hope to encourage interest in chemical engineering and clear misconceptions held by others about what this branch of engineering actually entails.We will be running a simple process in a miniature plant to demonstrate that ChBE is about production. At the side we will also have information about concerns of chemical engineers and why it's important."	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Prosthetics	Digital Computer Lab	West Atrium	"A buildable electronic prosthetic arm model will be used to pick up various items, and visitors will be able to control it with their voices. In addition, a poster will provide information on old and new prosthetic designs."	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/Pulse monitor	Siebel Center	Northeast Atrium	"Our mobile application is able to track your pulse from a smartwatch or sensor, and keep track a person's heart rate over time. It can even call emergency services in case the user goes into cardiac arrest!"	Computer Science	PyZelda	Siebel Center	Northwest Atrium	Game engine built on top of pygame in python that I wrote and am using to remake Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening from scratch.	Computer Science	Quadcopter	Transportation Building	114	"A Quadcopter project, where certain pieces are 3D printed and replaced. Quadcopter may be built from scratch or from an existing one."	Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering	Quicksand and Liquefaction Tank	Newmark Hall	Crane Bay	"Have you ever wondered whether you would sink in quicksand? Well now is your chance to find out! Watch as we demonstrates what happens to Mickey Mouse in quick sand. Also, see the effects of an earthquake and liquefaction on different types of buildings."	Civil and Environmental Engineering	http://publish.illinois.edu/geostudents/Railroad Extravaganza!	Newmark Hall	Crane Bay	"The AREMA Student Chapter at UIUC, in association with the Rail Transportation and Engineering Center (RailTEC), are proud to present an exciting display featuring exhibits from major US railroads, Operation Lifesaver, a train simulator, and educational games highlighting the railroads' role in transportation and the engineering challenges they face."	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Rehab Through Gaming	Digital Computer Lab	West Atrium	"Traditional rehabilitation techniques are often dull for patients and limited in scope, but games are fun for all and can simulate an incredible number of different scenarios. Through a fun and interactive exhibit, we would like to demonstrate how gaming can be used to create more effective, flexible, and enjoyable exercises that will benefit both patients and therapists."	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.eduRolls-Royce Olympus Engine	Talbot Lab	Crane Bay	The Rolls-Royce Olympus 593 was the power plant for the famous Concorde. Learn about the engineering behind the engine that flew more supersonic miles than any other. See the innovation behind the engine's unique inlet that allowed it to perform at both subsonic and supersonic speeds. 	Aerospace Engineering	Roobick's Ruse	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	2nd floor atrium	"Small robot to solve any given Rubik's Cube.Color detection of the cube will be accomplished with a webcam analyzing all six sides. This will then be fed into a rendition of Kociemba's algorithm, and a solution for the cube will be solved in memory.This solution will then be fed to claws to solve the cube."	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Rube Goldberg Society	Engineering Hall	106B6	"Step into a world of gods, heroes, and mythical creatures alike in this year's Rube Goldberg Machine inspired by Greek and Roman mythology. This year's machine will include over seventy steps to complete the final task of ""erasing a chalkboard."" Don your togas and come see how your favorites from mythology would have erased a chalkboard in celebration of Engineering Open House!"	Engineering	SAE Baja - Offroad Illini	ESPL Lot	ESPL Lot	"Every year we design, build, and race a brand new one-seat off-road vehicle. Come check out our cars from the past few years and get an inside look on the developing car for this year! BRAND NEW for this year, we hope to let you get a real look at how our cars drive and give you a taste for what we see in competition by having one of our cars driving in a closed loop just outside the Engineering Student Projects Lab! Look out for it!In recent years we have competed everywhere from Washington state to New York, and have historically always done well. We're one team to keep a lookout for!"	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://offroadillini.mechse.illinois.edu/Sandbox Hydrology	Hydrosystems Lab	Hydrosystems Lab	"This educational sandbox + rainfall table model is all about hydrology. First we make the rain, then we can design a sandy landscape to increase or decrease surface runoff, ponding areas, and infiltration rates to recharge the aquifers."	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Sandcasting	Mechanical Engineering Lab	1225	"Members of Pi Tau Sigma will demonstrate firsthand how sandcasting parts works and explain the principles and theory behind it. Visitors can get down and dirty with several different parts (dinosaur, Illini car, stars, and flower) and pack sand themselves around a provided mold.  There will also be live sandcasting pouring demonstrations every hour.  Every visitor receives a metal sandcasted part to take home!"	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://pitausigma.mechse.illinois.eduSeaPerch - race for the prize	Hydrosystems Lab	Hydrosystems Lab	Control SeaPerch underwater robots in 1st-person;across the tank to scan a QR code!	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Self-Siphoning Beads	Loomis Lab	Lobby	The Self-Siphoning Beads exhibit will awe crowds as a long chain of beads continuously propels itself out of its container for one of the most simultaneously simple and counter intuitive demonstrations that there is.	Physics	ShinerBots	Coordinated Science Laboratory	301	Research in swarm robots navigation. There will be 100 mini robots that can only sense nearby robots and light intensity in its own location. These robots will work together to navigate to dark areas. This was inspired by the golden shiner fishes as they tend to move together and stay in dark areas.	Aerospace Engineering	Shining a Light on Blood Clots	Digital Computer Lab	East Atrium	"Existing tests for blood clots can be intrusive and expensive, meaning many are detected too late. Using a PPG diode, we are developing a monitor for early blood clot detection that operates by light without any incision or intrusion into blood vessels.The proposed monitor will provide data regarding blood flow and blood clot occlusion, establishing the severity of the blockage. "	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/SIGBio's Emo Player	Siebel Center	Northwest Atrium	The Emo player with take in brain waves detected by the EEG and select a certain piece of music based on the emotion of the experimentee.	Computer Science	"Singing, Arcing Plasma"	Loomis Lab	Lobby	Come see what your favorite songs look like!	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Slime Time: The Science of Polymers	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"You guys aren't the only ones to play with slime! Slime is a fascinating type of substance called a polymer. We can use slime to talk more about these amazing compounds and how they show up everywhere in nature and the things we buy, like food and clothing. We're going to make slime in front of your very eyes and then give you some to play and explore with, like any good scientist or engineer should, to learn about polymers hands-on! We have some samples of other polymers for you to look at too, courtesy of LyondellBasell, to see how different they can all look. And, of course, you can take the slime home with you as a souvenir!"	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Smart Home	Digital Computer Lab	East Atrium	"Electroencephalography (EEG) could prove very useful in helping physically disabled patients return to a more functional lifestyle. An EEG headset uses surface electrodes placed on the scalp to measure electrical signals across the brain. Through analysis of these signals, a system can be controlled completely by a person's thoughts. This exhibit features a handmade neuroheadset that utilizes these EEG signals to control household appliances and assistive devices."	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.eduSmart Sole Biometrics Platform	Digital Computer Lab	West Atrium	"Intel Edison based, in-shoe imbedded device that expands the boundaries of video and picture. The device monitors a person's heart rate, emotional status, temperature, velocity, and location, relays that information back to a Bluetooth enabled phone or an online server, and syncs this data with the picture or video data currently being captured. The device will gauge emotion by measuring the activity of the parasympathetic nervous system (by measuring Electrodermal Response). Imagine being able to not only visually capture the moment but also capture how you were feeling emotionally and physically."	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/Solar Command	Siebel Center	Northeast Atrium	"Solar Command is a combination of a collectible card game (CCG) and turn-based strategy game being developed by members of ACM Gamebuilders. Players use a variety of cards representing ships, planets, upgrades, and operations, and must use them to conquer their enemy player's capital world and take control of their sector of space. Stop by and play!"	Computer Science	http://www.acm.uiuc.edu/gamebuilders/games/2014/01/11/solarcommand.htmlSolar Lightens The Future	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	1st floor atrium	We want to teach kids about the solar energy and its benefits through our exhibition. We will build the solar kits and spread them among the kids to better convey the knowledge about solar energy. We also provide broken solar panels that people could connect and make a circuit with copper tape to make them digest the concepts more easily. 	Materials Science and Engineering	Solar Panel Tracking	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	4024	A miniature scaled device used to position photovoltaic panels will be demonstrated. 	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Something's Gotta' Give:  A Demonstration of Pressure Control 	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"Life is all about pressure. There's atmospheric pressure, peer pressure, and high blood pressure. But how do we deal with chemical pressure? That's a question Chemical Engineers ask every day! Come learn how to think like a Chem-E at our booth by exploring pressure control, pondering the consequences, and experiencing chemical power in action!"	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Space Shuttle Tile and Liquid Nitrogen	Talbot Lab	103	"Learn about some of the hottest and coldest aspects of space travel. Observe a real space shuttle heat shield tile in action, see what happens to various items (including marshmallows) when they are frozen in liquid nitrogen, and discover some of its uses on spacecraft."	Aerospace Engineering	Sparks Fly 	Loomis Lab	136	"Part A, Strontium Aluminate Powder: When illuminated with UV flashlights, this powder will glow for a few seconds and then fade into dark. With this nontoxic powder, kids could glue it down in fun shapes to pieces of paper, then illuminate them under a blacklight or using UV flashlights. Kids will be able to take their drawings home as the powder is safe for home use. Part B, Glowing Pickle Experiment: 120V battery hooked up to a pickle to make it glow orange. The science of electrons gaining energy and releasing that energy as light will be explained during the demo. Safety glass will be put in place and the demo will be performed every half hour. Part C, Phenolphthalein Secret Messages: Having the dye out in beakers as a paint, kids can write out messages on paper, then take them over to a UV light station to see what they wrote. "	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Splash Zone!	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	Could you imagine a world where water doesn't wet and oil doesn't stain? Watch demonstrations about the wonder of superhydrophobic (water repellent) and oleophobic materials (oil resistant) and discover their potential uses. Drop by to create your own superhydrophobic tile!	Materials Science and Engineering	Star Champion	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	"Star Champion is a 3D action game where you play as an elite mercenary on a space station. String together crazy combos with your jetpack, grappling hook, gun, sword and more to destroy the evil robots in your way!"	Computer Science	http://https://twitter.com/StarChampionDevStormwater Floodplain Model	Hydrosystems Lab	Hydrosystems Lab	Flooding and urban hydrology are thoroughly explained in this fun exhibit.	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Student Space Systems	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	"Experience a demonstration of a high-powered rocket parachute ejection system! SSS(Student Space Systems) is a brand new RSO in the Aerospace Department focused on hands-on, high-powered rocketry. Come see our built rockets that can already soar to 10,000 feet and hear about our bold plans to take them to space in the coming years. Get a taste of everything from the basics of rocketry, to the complex electrical and robotic systems we plan on incorporating into our rockets and launches systems. Hear about our exciting partnership with the CubeSat organization on campus, and learn about how we are going to send these mini satellites into space. Finally, discover our special side-projects, including our intentions for a liquid-fueled rocket engine."	Aerospace Engineering	Sudden Impact Analytics	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	1st floor south hall	"Real time concussion detection in athletes. A small chip fits in an athletes mouth guard or protective head equipment. The chip measures the accelerations that an athletes head experiences during an impact, among other things. Concussion management software is built around our product and data collected is analyzed for trends and useful insights. A mobile application is available for athletic trainers, coaches and parents to easily understand whats going on in real time. A web application delivers a more comprehensive concussion solution specifically geared towards schools."	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Suga Suga How You Get So Sweet?	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"For our project, we will be helping educate the community about the process of making candy, the thermodynamics behind it, and how it is mass produced. We will have a trifold to display the three topics with a small demonstration for making candy and letting the community try a sample of our product. We will be demonstrating different types of candy and their processes such as hard candy, chocolate, and gummy candy."	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Super Strength Copolymer Hydrogel	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	"This exhibit will display a high strength hydrogel with extraordinary stretching ability, based on research done at Harvard University and published in Nature Research Journal. The polymer hydrogel is created using an alginate and polyacrylamide mixture. The two brittle components come together to form a tough gel that can stretch 20 times that of the separate components.  Hydrogels of  alginate by itself, an ionic hydrogel, and polyacrylamide by itself, a covalent hydrogel, will also be prepared to show the drastic difference between the individual hydrogels and the combination of the two. "	Materials Science and Engineering	"Super""Cool"" Superconducting Levitation"	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	"Ever wonder how some of the new high-speed railways work? By cooling a ceramic below the critical temperature, you can make it float on magnets and follow a track with no resistance through the Meissner Effect! Come check it out at this super ""cool"" demonstration!"	Materials Science and Engineering	Supercooling & Supersaturation	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	Come stop by our exhibit to see the demonstrations and applications of supercooling and supersaturation. Come see water freeze right before your eyes simply through the tap of a finger! Come learn how those warmer packs which look like warm ice actually work! 	Materials Science and Engineering	SuperPi	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	2nd floor atrium	"Utilizing multiple Raspberry Pi's, we will build a small cluster to run different Python programs. These Raspberry Pi's will all be linked to distribute the computing tasks, making scientific computing a lot more accessible than it previously was. We will use 3-5 Raspberry Pi's and a network hub to link the Raspberry Pi's together via ethernet, and use several programs to distribute the computing load over each one. In particular, we will use MPICH (http://www.mpich.org/) to communicate between each Raspberry Pi, and MPI4Py to run the Python scripts on each machine. Using this, we will be able to show that scientific computing is not out of reach of ordinary people and students."	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Synchrophasor Data Quality	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	1st floor south hall	This exhibit is a demonstration of future technology in the power grid operation aimed to provide a fundamental understanding of synchrophasor technologies and their application on the power grid. 	Electrical and Computer Engineering	The Chemistry of Airbags	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"This project will explain how chemistry principles are used to design motor vehicle airbags. We will explain how a chemical reaction occurring in the airbag causes it to inflate in only fractions of a second during a collision, and how gas laws and stoichiometry are used in airbag design. Airbags are an everyday product with real-world significance and important applications to safety, so the project will focus on how the chemistry of airbags saves lives. A discussion of the advantages and disadvantages of using airbags, including concerns about safety and environmental impact, will also be introduced.Although this information can be conveyed through a poster, our project will be more exciting because it will demonstrate an airbag in action.In addition, we will offer a hands-on activity where participants can test the effectiveness of a model airbag made with a baking soda and vinegar reaction by dropping it from a height with an egg attached and observing that the egg will"	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	The Consulting CUBE	Transportation Building	112	"CUBE Consulting will be presenting 3 engineering challenges based in real world projects. Participants will be challenged to think creatively to build a marshmallow moon lander, float as many penny people as possible in foil boats, and assemble the tallest tower! In addition to these varied engineering consulting based projects, CUBE will be presenting its current work and advances as an up-and-coming student consulting group."	Engineering	http://cubeillinois.com/The Enigma Cipher Machine	Siebel Center	Southeast Atrium	"We are going to present a historical background of the Enigma Cipher Machine used by Germany in World War II and broken by the Bletchley Park code breakers in England, led by Alan Turing. Visitors will be able to encrypt their own messages using a computer simulation of the Enigma. We will also demonstrate how simple it is to break Enigma with modern computing power."	Computer Science	The Green Charging Station	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	"Renewable technology is becoming more and more important in today's society. The need for energy increases every year not only in the United States but also in developing nations. Therefore, WIDE has engineered and built a Horizontal and Vertical Axis Wind Turbine that can be used for off-grid power usage. The turbines are designed to charge a 12 Volt car battery, which can be used to power other items such as a phone or laptop. If you are running on a low battery please stop by to receive some green energy as WIDE tells you about our exhibit."	Materials Science and Engineering	http://publish.illinois.edu/wide-uiuc/The Medical Needle Reimagined	Digital Computer Lab	East Atrium	"Currently, the reuse of medical needles is a very prevalent problem around the world, especially in developing countries. This has lead to the spread of many serious diseases and preventable deaths. Our exhibit will display a poster explaining a new design for the medical needle that will change color when it comes into contact with skin and blood so that if the needle were to be reused again, everyone, including the patient can see whether it is sterile or not. We will be using pencils that change color upon heat from handling to represent our idea of needles. Additionally, we will be presenting current alternative injection technologies such as micro-needle patches and air jet injection devices to provide comparison and context."	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.eduThe Micron:  Accessibility Through Ingenuity	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	1st floor atrium	"The Micron is a distance camera that is ultra-compact and remotely operable, it was named for its extremely small size.  What The Micron does is give students the ability to read the board in class, allowing the student to better learn the material and be able to better ask questions in class or office hours.   This leads higher grades and less time lost attempting to learn the material outside of class.  The Micron was originally developed from a lubricious idea and a podcast video by Jacob Hudson during the Fall 2011 semester to avoid failing MATH 125.Since then, The Micron has gone through three years of continuous testing and improvements to better meet the needs of students with vision_based disabilities.  This has been done by testing in many different classrooms with a variety of configurations and professors with a variety of teaching styles.  Using this information, a new user can quickly learn how the device works where it will be the most beneficial.  While testing, seve"	Electrical and Computer Engineering	http://publish.illinois.edu/themicronThe Photo-mobile	Engineering Hall	106B8	"My exhibit was initially made for the ECE 110 Lab final design project. It is a small car that is steered using a flashlight and has the capability to detect obstacles using a Sonar sensor on the front. The car can be driven and steered quite fluently on a hard surface (not carpeting) and will back up if the user attempts to steer it toward a wall or object. The exhibit is fun for everyone but particularly good for kids, because anyone can walk up and steer it easily. It is also a good basic electronics project to illustrate the practicality of sensor feedback and simple hardware/software applications.The design utilizes three photo-resistors on the back of the car; pointing a flashlight at the left/right photo-resistor turns the car left/right respectively, while pointing it at the middle one drives the car straight. The front of the car has been fitted with an Ultrasonic Ranging Module, which uses Sonar to detect incoming objects and put the car in reverse in the event of a block"	Electrical and Computer Engineering	The Power of Piezoelectric Materials	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway	"Piezoelectric materials are becoming increasingly popular in the field of engineering due to their interesting electrical properties. A piezoelectric material converts physical force to electricity, so stop by to see how you can take advantage of this property and be amazed."	Materials Science and Engineering	The ProtectAid Bandage	Digital Computer Lab	West Atrium	"The ProtectAid bandage, a new form of modular bandage, makes small changes to the conventional bandage in hopes of creating a more effective first-aid device. Using a pressure system and a infection detection system, this relatively inexpensive bandage is able to provide more utility more effectively than a conventional bandage. We will be displaying a 3D model of our ProtectAid prototype and will have an informational presentation elucidating how the ProtectAid bandage works and the ideas behind it."	Bioengineering	"The Rheology Zoo: Fluids, Solids, and Things-In-Between"	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2nd floor	"Defying the classical definitions of fluids and solids are rheologically complex materials, also known as non-Newtonian fluids. Transform your perspective on everyday materials such as playdoh, silly putty, and chewing gum by experiencing the peculiar physics of these substances and more in demonstrations and hands-on demos of key rheological phenomena: fluid-to-solid transitions such as shear-thickening and viscoelasticity, the rod-climbing effect, and self-siphoning. Learn how rheology research at Illinois is making use of these phenomena to impact the real world through bioinspired engineering, modern cuisine, product design, soft robotics, and fire suppression."	Mechanical Science and Engineering	The Six Minute ECE Booth	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	2nd floor atrium	At The Six Minute ECE Booth people will learn about various concepts about Electrical and Computer Engineering through hands on activities. We will have six demos available for visitors to interact with.The first demo will be creating a simple circuit using a Circuit Scribe pen. Participants will draw the circuit using the conductive ink and attach four different LEDs to the circuit. Four separate switches will also be made using the ink and folds in the paper. These switches will control the four LEDs.The next demonstration shows off how electromagnets work. Visitors will wind wire around a nail and use the nail to pick up paper clips. We will explain how the current flowing in a circular pattern creates a magnetic field. This field helps align the magnetic domains in the metal nail to create a magnet. People can experiment and discover how adding more loops around the nail creates a stronger magnet. We will also show how magnetic fields can spin a loop of wire around a ba	Electrical and Computer Engineering	http://hkn.ec.illinois.edu/Thermal cameras to detect people and traffic	Siebel Center	Southeast Atrium	"Thermal cameras can do a lot more than just check the temperature. If used correctly, they can even count cars and estimate how bad a traffic jam is. This interactive display allows you to test our thermal sensors to detect when a person walks by. We also show how this can be used to detect a traffic jam."	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Through the Looking Glass	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"1) Before the open house: make several silvered test tubes/small bottles in a lab to give away at the fair (estimated 50-100 to be a good amount, but open to change); also 1 or 2 decorative silvered glass bottles/flasks for show2) At EOH, the posters would explain today's scientific and engineering applications of mirrors and also the history of mirror making with silvering/redox reaction3) At EOH, demo: ""making mirrors by silvering"".Have prepared aqueous solutions of reagents in separate bottles (pre-made a few days earlier + at cool temp!). The solutions can be measured and mixed at the fair. Will silver a bottle or erlenmeyer flask at each demo - about 4 demos executed. "	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Tilt	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	"The purpose of this project is to integrate the Oculus Rift virtual reality device with the Parrot AR Drone quadricopter. The user will be able to control the rotational movements of the quadricopter with head movements while getting a live video feed from the quadricopter's camera, offering a very realistic bird's-eye view."	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Tonal Starfield	Siebel Center	Northeast Atrium	"A massively collaborative musical simulation. A mix of computer science, music theory, computer music synthesis, visualization, and space exploration."	Computer Science	http://acm.uiuc.edu/sigmusicTorre	Siebel Center	Southeast Atrium	"Come play this exciting game and learn how it was programmed! The game will be a 2D platform based game with a theme surrounding binary colors (black and white, red and blue) and centered in puzzles and action. The genre is commonly known as Metroidvania."	Computer Science	Touch and See Tissue Engineering!	Digital Computer Lab	East Atrium	"We will be creating 3 smaller projects to demonstrate to grade school through high school students the basic concepts and ideas surrounding tissue engineering: in vitro tissue design from the ground up, the combination of chemistry, biology, and materials science, and the utilization of different microenvironments for the culture of different cell types.  In order to make this interesting for younger kids, we want to create a ""feel and see"" type of approach to each of these concepts.  For the building of tissues, we would like to utilize a building medium such as Lincoln Logs or Legos to give the children an opportunity to ""build"" a particular tissue with certain components; we can give them instructions at the booth for a particular tissue to build, with each Lego piece or different Lincoln Log pieces representing different tissue components.  For the different microenvironments, we would like to create a series of materials--we were thinking along the lines of jello, glop(cornsta"	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/TouchBooth	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	1st floor atrium	"The TouchBooth is an interactive photo booth reacting to the contact between people. It features a shutter release system in which skin contact between two or more people triggers a set of processes that result in a lo-fi instant thermal picture.  The project contains: mirrors with LED flashes, mini camera(s), a thermal printer."	Electrical and Computer Engineering	http://www.ece.illinois.edu/Tower of Determinacy	Newmark Hall	Crane Bay	"When analyzing a structure, it is important to know what kind of structure it is. Based on determinacy and stability, the methods of analysis vary. At this exhibit, we will discuss how to determine if a structure is determinate, indeterminate, and/or stable. The audience will play a large scale jenga game to learn the concepts of determinacy."	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Tsunami Maker	Hydrosystems Lab	Hydrosystems Lab	"We are going to simulate Tsunami waves and try to demonstrate it's basic difference with the ordinary waves. Tsunami is one of the most destructive phenomena of Mother Nature and was brought back into the public attention by virtue of its impact on Japan in 2011. Tsunami in Japanese means Harbor waves. It is a series of water waves caused by the displacement of a large volume of a body of water, typically an ocean or a large lake. Earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and other underwater explosions (including detonations of underwater nuclear devices), landslides, glacier calvings, meteorite impacts and other disturbances above or below water all have the potential to generate a tsunami. One of the earliest recorded tsunami is believed to be from 462 B.C in Greece. There is lot of ongoing research through different physical and computer models to understand tsunami better. Through our simple physical model, we will try to demonstrate two of the important characteristics of tsunami; first "	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Tunnel and Reservoir Plan (TARP) Physical Model	Hydrosystems Lab	Hydrosystems Lab	"As a very large and old city, Chicago still uses sewer pipes which contain both sanitary and stormwater flows; these are known as a combined sewers. Strong rainfall events may overload the urban drainage system, the rainfall excess may flood basements, streets and lower building levels. To mitigate these effects the City Of Chicago designed and built deep tunnels and gigantic reservoirs (TARP) where rainfall excess is storaged. In this manner engineers can regulate the inflows of sewage to the water treatment plans during extreme rainfall events. This MegaProject has reduced dramatically the frequency and volume of untreated sewer overflows discharged to the environment (Chicago River and Lake Michigan). U of I students have build a scaled model of TARP for one of our classes. Come and see what engineers can do to alleviate urban flooding hazards!"	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Video Game: Dystheism	Siebel Center	Southeast Atrium	A 3D block-based puzzle game.	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Video Super-Resolution	Coordinated Science Laboratory	Lower level	"We propose a fast GPU-parallelized algorithm using deep convolutional neural network for real-time video super-resolution (SR), in which the restoration of a high-resolution image from a low-resolution image is accomplished by the deep learning model. This technique can be potentially utilized in a number of applications, such as surveillance and SDTV to HDTV conversion. "	Electrical and Computer Engineering	VR spec	Siebel Center	Northwest Atrium	Virtual reality demonstration for educating through visualizing systems.	Computer Science	Walking on Oobleck	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	"This will be Sigma Phi Delta's third year doing this exhibit.  We build a small pool about 2ft by 4ft and fill it with Oobleck.  Once mixed, we allow people to take off their shoes and run across it.  Due to Oobleck being a non-newtonian fluid, the participants are able to run across it without getting messy, however if they walk too slowly, they sink in."	Physics	http://www.sigphis.orgWater-gun Efficiency	Bardeen Quad	Bardeen Quad	young kids pump up a water gun and count the number of pumps and measure the distance that it goes. They then mark the number of pumps and how far the water goes on a graph.	Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering	"Water, A resource balancing act"	Hydrosystems Lab	Hydrosystems Lab	"We all see water and its many uses inside the home but there are important uses that we do not see. These uses include energy production, growing food, manufacturing, and many more. Due to the scarcity of fresh water there are often complications when deciding who gets to use it. This exhibit gives you the power to decide how to distribute a limited amount of water to a community and visualize the effects. Do you have what it takes to keep the town running?"	Civil and Environmental Engineering	WCS EOH Project 	Siebel Center	1304	Check out this year's project by the Women in Computer Science.	Computer Science	Wear for Your Care	Digital Computer Lab	West Atrium	Wearable technology has become a media sensation with projects like the Apple Watch and Google Glass. Our project looks at ways to turn physiological monitors into wearable technology. We will also show how this information can be presented to a user via a SmartWatch interface.	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.eduWhats In Our Wine: A Study on Aging	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"This project will examine how the presence of certain compounds differentiate a young bottle from a finely aged one. By use of experimental methods such as nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), we will compare the aging of white and red wines, in addition to the environments they age in. We will delve into the difference of mass transfer that occurs in oak barrels vs. with oak chips. Upon leaving, you will have a better understanding of what makes the wine you drink taste so great."	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	White Lightning - The Fermentation and Distillation Process Behind Moonshine	Loomis Lab	Lobby	"We are going to ferment dry yeast in sugar water inside of an airlocked carboy.  Once fermented, we will transfer the liquid to a tea kettle for heating.The tea kettle will be corked on the end with a copper tube coming out (we will also insert a digital thermometer here as well for our temperature readings).  The tubing will also be run through a water cooler (our condenser) full of ice and it will stick out the bottom where we will collect the liquid (first methanol then ethanol then water if we were to keep heating).  A coupler will connect the tube leaving the heater to the tube entering the condenser."	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	Why is Perpetual Motion Impossible?	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2005	"The exhibit will showcase several examples of ""apparent"" perpetual motion machines, and the exhibitor will use the machines to demonstrate and explain why perpetual motion is impossible.  The machines will be: 1)  A pendulum swinging on a base with a curved bottom. 2) A machine with a weight on a string twisting and untwisting around several poles in a  carousel motion. 3) An overbalanced wheel, also called the Da Vinci Wheel While the exhibits all exhibit the same principle and can be explained in the same way, all three provide interesting visual displays."	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://asme.mechse.illinois.edu/Wind Power Generator	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	4024	"This exhibit will demo a three-phase wind turbine generator. Visitors can expect to learn about this renewable energy technology in a variety of ways (technological, environmental, political, etc.), as well as the basics of the American power system (e.g., threephase power, etc.)."	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Wind Tunnel	Hydrosystems Lab	Hydrosystems Lab	"Have you ever wondered why airplanes and space shuttles have similar shape? Why do fish have similar features? Shape matters for Aerodynamics andn Hydrodynamics alike! In this exhibit we use an air tunnel to show the flow resistance for different geometrical objects. We will show the effect of shape on the flow streamlines and we will explain the effect of shape on the maximum drag force and how it relates to real world applications such as flow around a bridge pier, spoilers on a race car, fish swimming etc.!"	Civil and Environmental Engineering	Women in Electrical and Computer Engineering (WECE)	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	1st floor south hall	"WECE is creating two activities that guests can do that use their body and mind as control. The first will be a ""mario kart"" themed slot car race. The user will be able to control the car using EMG sensors placed on their arms. The second activity will be mind pong. Guests will place a band around their head which measures brainwaves. These will be interpreted to move a pong paddle up and down on the screen. Two players will oppose each other in competition."	Electrical and Computer Engineering	Women in MechSE	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2005	"Women in MechSE, an ASME committee, is constructing  a working model of a Stirling Engine, a regenerative heat engine. It will be a demonstration of a thermodynamic system, showing how heat can be converted into mechanical power. "	Mechanical Science and Engineering	Write It Make It	Electrical and Computer Engineering Building	2nd floor atrium	"Participants will be broken into teams of two, ideally parent and sibling. The first team member (""The Writer"") will be shown a design make out a random craft material (Legos, Tinker Toys, Straws, Popsicle sticks, etc.). The first team member will then have five to ten minutes to create instructions of how to build the object being shown. The second team member (""The Maker"") will then attempt to recreate the object using the instructions given in five to ten minutes. "	Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering	http://nobeillinois.org/home.php%%%%					