30 Pounds of Thrust	Bardeen Quad	north of Talbot Lab	"Experience 30 pounds of thrust with our Jet Engine Demonstration. Our JetCat may be small, but it packs a mighty punch! Wondering how a Jet engine works? Or just curious about Aerospace Engineering? Come by the AIAA exhibits and our Members will be glad to answer your questions!"	AIAA	Aerospace Engineering	http://aiaa.ae.illinois.edu/?q=aiaa/	Active and Passive Prosthetics	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	An examination of active and passive prosthetics and their advantages and disadvantages. The exhibit includes a demonstration of team-built prosthetics of each type as well as a look at the worldwide impact of these devices.	Biomedical Engineering Society	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu	Active Sensing Ankle Brace 2.0	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	The athletic ankles' newest best friend is back and better than ever. Come see the newest improvements to last year's ankle strain measuring brace for injury prevention.	Biomedical Engineering Society	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu	Agriculture Develops My Food	Loomis Lab	lobby	"Come learn about agriculture and food processing industry. Learn about ways that ADM brought food from the field to family.Agriculture DemonstrationsSafety Demonstrations for the Field of Chemical Engineering. Come learn about Safety and Sage and what we are doing to make a world safer place."	AIChE			Alpha Epsilon	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	From ACES	ACES	ACES		American Institute of Chemical Engineers Chemical Engineering Car Team	MatSE Building	1st floor west hallway	We will be setting up a booth to display the miniature vehicle we create that uses two seperate chemical reactions to propel and stop the car. We will be competing with our car in the spring at American Institute of Chemical Engineers Regional competition. We are planning on running an iodine clock reaction and displaying how our fuel cell works.	American Institute of Chemical Engineering Car Team	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		American Nuclear Society	Loomis Lab	151	"Sponsored by the American Nuclear Society, this exhibit will feature multiple demos and presentations about nuclear power, plasma physics, and radiological science! This is an exhibit that is informative and educational. It is also very kid friendly, so come on by!"	American Nuclear Society	"Nuclear, Plasma, and Radiological Engineering"		Ancient Gravity-powered Water Pump	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	The hydraulic water-based ram pump allows water to be pumped from a water supply to a higher elevation than the source. It does this through a combination of two check valves and a compression chamber that allows water to pressurize and form a hydraulic shock wave. The ram pump was first manufactured in the 1700s but ancient Egyptian civilization may also have utilized ram pumps for elevating water.	IAHR	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Archimedes Solar Thermal Technology	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2005	"The Archimedes Solar thermal system was conceived at the engineers seeking to improve efficiency in energy systems. Using new and improved optical techniques, we can improve performace of Heliostats and seek to make solar technology more viable. The project received funding as part of the Innoventor Trophy challenge sponsored by the mechanical engineering department. The team is currently in the process of building its first scaled prototype. We aim is to spread awareness about the huge and untapped potential of solar energy for a sustainable and greener future"	Mechanical Science and Engineering Department	Mechanical Science and Engineering		Arduino Door Lock	Everitt Lab	143	The DIY solution to continually locking yourself out.	Steve Wang	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Atmospheric Pressure Plasma Jet	Loomis Lab	field across the street	"The atmospheric pressure plasma jet is a novel atmospheric plasma discharge. It is a relatively low temperature plasma (even touchable), with many possible processing applications. Come see an amazing plasma display!"	AIChE	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		Atomify!	Siebel Center	1st floor west hallway	"Learn how to build fast, maintainable complex web applications using the principles of atomic software development. You'll get to play with cross-platform mobile apps built using these techniques and see just what's possible on the mobile web. If you're interested in cutting edge web development, you don't want to miss this!"	Founders	Computer Science		Balsa Wood Bridge Bust	Newmark Civil Engineering Lab	crane bay	For the balsa wood bridge bust this is a competition for a local high school. They build bridges in their classroom and come to Crane Bay to do the competition. They are testing the strength of their bridges.	American Society of Civil Enigneers	Civil and Environmental Engineering	http://publish.illinois.edu/americansocietyofcivilengineers/	Beating the Game	Mechanical Engineering Lab	1228	"Come join the Society of Women Engineers and have fun at our engineering carnival exhibit! We will be having multiple carnival-themed stations demonstrating several physics phenomena. Some stations include miniature roller coaster, a duck shooting game with a hand-built conveyer belt, spring projectile shooters and face painting by the artsiest and the most creative SWE members. This exhibit demonstrates the coolness of physics behind everyday life that may be overlooked, and also includes much fun!"	Society of Women Engineers			Bio-potential Manipulation Device	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	"An Iron Man-inspired bio-potential manipulation system that acts on muscle signals to manipulate the world around you such as magnetic fields capable of levitating objects, turning on devices, and much, much more! This project introduces the concept of controlling the world around us with biological signals!"	Biomedical Engineering Society	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu	Biomedical Display	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2nd floor atrium	Come learn about some of the life saving technologies used in the medical field today.	Mechanical Science and Engineering Department	Mechanical Science and Engineering		Bionic Lifter	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	"At times, lifting heavy objects can be difficult or impossible. However, with a bionic lifter, a person could use their muscles to lift much more than what a human is capable of. By sending nerve impulses from human muscles to a powerful lifting machine, a person could easily lift more than a hundred pounds of weight with just one arm."	Biomedical Engineering Society	Bioengineering		Bitcoin ATM	Siebel Center	1st floor west hallway	We are building a Bitcoin ATM to change USD to Bitcoins!	ACM	Computer Science		Bleaklight Game	Siebel Center	1st floor west hallway	"This top down 2D horror adventure follows a scientist trapped in the underground lab he worked at as he struggles to survive against the living dark. With no weapon other than his wit and a flashlight, he must navigate past lurking monsters and obstacles that threaten his life."	ACM GameBuilders	Computer Science		Blood Glucose Monitoring Wristwatch	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	"Current glucose monitors tend to use blood tests, which can be painful, inconvenient, and invasive. Also, they use an initial blood test to calibrate the monitor. This wristwatch measures your glucose levels continuously by drawing small amounts of fluid from under the skin using a technology called reverse iontophoresis. This wristwatch also never uses your blood, making it non-invasive."	Biomedical Engineering Society	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/	Bracketology: What are the odds?	Siebel Center	1st floor west hallway	"With the NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Championship Tournament beginning on March 18, sports enthusiasts are preparing to fill out their brackets this weekend. This exhibit presents BracketOdds, a web-based tool to help bracketologists assess their brackets based on statistical analysis of the past performances of seeds."	Individual	Computer Science	http://bracketodds.cs.illinois.edu/	Bridge on a Budget	Transportation Building	101	"Enter the real world as participants are given a budget, a list of supplies and the task of building the best bridge as efficiently as possible. Total score takes strength and efficiency into account. Do you have what it takes to be an engineer in the real world?"	Illinois Society of General Engineers	Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering	http://isge.ec.illinois.edu/	"Bridge to China: Bridging Cultures, Improving Lives"	Newmark Civil Engineering Lab	crane bay	"After building their second bridge as a club, Bridge to China would like to share with you the experience of bridge design and engineering. "	Illinois Bridge to China	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Broken Sticks and Random Triangles	Altgeld Hall	239	"If a stick is broken up at random into three pieces, what are the chances that the three pieces form a triangle? Is a triangle obtained in this way more likely to be acute or obtuse? The answers may surprise you. Find out through our interactive computer simulations, and see the underlying mathematics explained."	Illinois Geometry Lab			Bullseye!	Mechanical Engineering Lab	1005	Want to throw darts... in class? In this interactive exhibit students from the Machine Design class (ME 370) will show off their amazing dart throwing machines that they designed.	Department of Mechanical Science and Engineering	Mechanical Science and Engineering		Burning Cells	Bardeen Quad	outside	"College dorms are one of the most vulnerable locations for a fire; they are small enclosed spaces that are often filled with electrical equipment and a number of fire hazards. Many college students overlook potentially dangerous hazards and situations that lead to fires, injury, and even death. This exhibit, presented by The Society of Women Engineers with the support of the Illinois Fire Service Institute and overseen by the Urbana Fire Department, demonstrates the dangers of fires, the importance of sprinklers in dorm rooms, and the impact that engineers can make on the fire service."	Society of Women Engineers			Center for Nanoscale Science and Technology 	Micro and Nanotechnology Lab	1st floor atrium	"Engage in hands-on activities and demonstrations that highlight nanoscience and nanotechnology. We will explore some current applications, including consumer products, toys, and crafts that integrate nanoscale features. We will also look at some future applications in this area. Test your knowledge of nanoscale science and technology with a quiz at our exhibit!"	Center for Nanoscale Science and Technology-Student Initiative		http://www.nano.illinois.edu/	Chainless Bicycle	Mechanical Engineering Lab	1st floor west entrance	Each year a few Mechanical Engineering Seniors participate in the Parker Hannifin Chainless Challenge Competition. Come check out our chainless bicycle which runs on hydraulic power and has an estimated top speed of 25 mph!	Mechanical Science and Engineering Department	Mechanical Science and Engineering		Charge Your Phone with Green Energy	Bardeen Quad	outside	"Is your phone almost dead? Well you need to come see Wide Impact Developmental Engineering's GREEN CELL PHONE CHARGING STATION. Wide Impact Developmental Engineering (WIDE) has recently developed a green and cost effective vertical axis turbine that charges a 12 Volt car battery. The turbine is composed of common items found in a junk yard which reduces cost and makes each turbine somewhat unique, but each revolves around the same design. Our group encompasses mechanical, industrial, and electrical engineers who each played a vital role in constructing the wind turbine. Currently, WIDE is sending our turbines to a district in Uganda to power a school. Please stop by and chat with us while you charge your phone."	Wide Impact Developmental Engineering	Electrical and Computer Engineering	http://publish.illinois.edu/wide-uiuc/	ChemE Car	Engineering Hall	106B3	ChemE Car	AICHE			Chemical Engineering and Bubbles	Loomis Lab	lobby	"So what is a chemical engineer? How is bubble making similar to what engineers do? Through our exhibition, we will show how chemical engineers use chemical processes and improve on them to get the maximum output by improving on our bubble making process. We show how to make stronger and longer-lasting bubbles. We also show how to make bigger bubbles. All this ties in to what chemical engineers do to improve processes."	AICHE	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		Chocolate Injection Molding	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2005	"Yes, we are serious. If there is one thing better than eating chocolate, it is making your own in an injection molder! Come witness a tasty twist on Manufacturing and learn how the same technique is used in making plastic products that you use everyday! Or you could just standby and smell the chocolate. We don't judge."	American Society of Mechanical Engineers	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://asme.mechse.illinois.edu	Clash of Empires	Siebel Center	1st floor east hallway	"Clash of Empires is a real-time strategy game based on Early Modern Europe that will be quick to learn and play, but will offer a deep level of strategy and challenging artificial intelligence."	ACM Gamebuilders	Computer Science	http://gulugames.com	Climate Change and Extreme Weather	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	University Laboratory High School Subfreshman will demonstrate how climate change can lead to more extreme weather and present strategies for mitigating damage from these mega-storms.	University Laboratory High School	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Cloud Chamber	Everitt Lab	269	The exciting field of particle physics uses various detection systems to observe particles that comprise the everyday matter all around us. Join us at our cloud chamber as we track alpha particles as they decay from our lead source!	Physics Society	Physics		Coastal and Wave Processes	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	Have you ever wondered how sand move on a beach? Come visit our giant water wave tank and experience natural processes of sediment sorting and bar formation prevalent in coastal environments!	IAHR	Civil and Environmental Engineering		CocoaNuts!	Siebel Center	1st floor east hallway	Ever wanted to take a picture and make a mosaic from your Facebook photos? Now you can! Come check us out to make your own photomosaic from your own photos or our stock photos!	CocoaNuts	Computer Science		Composites in Nike	MatSE Building	100	Did you know that your athletic shoes are specifically designed to help you play a certain sport? Learn how Nike has used composite materials to do this	MSE 183	Materials Science and Engineering		Concrete Coasters	Newmark Civil Engineering Lab	crane bay	The American Concrete Institute Student Chapter at the University of Illinois provides a learning environment for students interested in all aspects of concrete. Visit our booth to cast your own concrete beverage coaster customized any way you like! These functional souvenirs cure quickly while you experience other Newmark Lab exhibits. We will also test high strength concrete cylinders throughout the event as part of a student competition.	American Concrete Institute	Civil and Environmental Engineering	http://go.illinois.edu/aci	Concrete Crushing	Talbot Lab	basement	"Watch a giant concrete crushes break an 800 lb concrete cylinder under 1,600,000 lbs of pressure!"	Mechanical Science and Engineering Department	Mechanical Science and Engineering		Conducting Playdoh	MatSE Building	1st floor	Ever wondered how a circuit works? Come learn how to make one with everyone's favorite childhood toy: Playdoh!	MSE 183	Mechanical Science and Engineering		Cooking with Innovation	Bardeen Quad	outside	The Haiti Clean Stove Project at the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign aims to design & implement improved cook stoves to replace charcoal and open fire cooking in Haiti. We will be demonstrating how biomass cook stoves work and will be giving out Haitian food samples.	Haiti Clean Stove Project	Civil and Environmental Engineering	http://www.cleanstove.org/	Coolant System in Microgravity	Talbot Lab	225A	"Learn about the effects different temperatures and pressures have on the fluid flow in a coolant system and why a prototype designed for use in microgravity is necessary. This prototype will be constructed by a team from the Illinois Space Society and flown aboard NASA's ""Vomit Comet"" later this spring."	Illinois Space Society	Aerospace Engineering		Corn Stalk Counter	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	From ACES	ACES	ACES		Crazy Crystals	Loomis Lab	141	At Crazy Crystals we demonstrate the process of instant crystallization by adding small amounts of sodium acetate to a supersaturated solution!	AICHE	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		CU Community Fab Lab	Bardeen Quad	outside	"The Champaign-Urbana Community Fab Lab is a small-scale workshop for computer-based innovation, design and fabrication. The Fab Lab allows you to dream up, design and make almost anything you can imagine using open source software and DIY equipment. We are running an interactive station for EOH visitors to learn about what the Fab Lab does to help both students and researchers in engineering, art and informatics, as well as entrepreneurs and local organizations for underprivileged youth. Participants will have a chance to see 3D printers and electronic cutters in action, and, more importantly, explore some of the innovative education and design techniques we've built around them. Many people will be able to go home with sticker they've made on the spot and everyone is invited to continue creating at our on-campus location or at our site for teens at the Urbana Free Library."	Informatics		http://cucfablab.org/	Dancing Fluids	Engineering Hall	106B1	This exhibit uses the very special properties of certain magnetic-field sensitive fluids that can be manipulated to create exciting new shapes to liquids that defy gravity itself! Visitors can also participate and create shapes themselves. A board displaying the science behind ferro fluid and what applications it is used for will be included.	National Society of Black Engineers			Decaffeinator!	Loomis Lab	141	"Want to know how your coffee and tea are decaffeinated? Check out the Decaffeinator! We'll teach you about several processes of decaffeination used including the Roselius process, Swiss Water processes, and much much more! Come on over for a little taste of the decaffeination process and find out why one of the processes is no longer used!"	American Institute of Chemical Engineers	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		Design Build Fly	Bardeen Quad	outside	"Design, Build, Fly (DBF) is an RSO in the Aerospace department whose goal is to see multiple RC aircraft from the initial stages of development into fully functioning aircraft that can exceed their original purpose with ease. DBF also has multiple shop sessions where any member can help with building the planes, getting hands on experience that is normally unavailable for freshmen and sophomores. In addition to the just for fun planes, DBF also takes part in the annual AIAA Design/Build/Fly competition, where we compete with other educational institutes in making completing a set of missions that vary from year to year.This year, we will be not only showing off this year's competition plane but also a number of smaller projects such as our various trainer aircraft. These aircraft will be flown whenever possible at our discretion."	Deisgn Build Fly	Aerospace Engineering		Design Build Fly	Bardeen Quad	outside	"We are a student lead design group that designs and builds a radio controlled aircraft for an annual design competition. Visitors can expect to use an R/C simulator, examine several aircraft up close and even watch a flying model if space permits."	Design Build Fly	Aerospace Engineering		Design for America	Engineering Hall	106B3	"Design for America is an interdisciplinary student-led design studio that uses human-centered design to create social impact. We will be displaying prototypes from various social impact, human-centered design projects. E-waste, Natural Disasters, Electronic Driving Aids"	Design For America	Electrical and Computer Engineering		DNA and Me	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	Knowing your own DNA sequence is the future of medicine. Learn about the world of genetics by extracting DNA from a strawberry!	Biomedical Engineering Society	Bioengineering		EBICS	Micro and Nanotechnology Lab	1st floor atrium	"There have been many recent advances in micro/nanotechnology. You will be able to witness and build a variety of objects like the Taj Mahal using out 3D printer. Additionally, we have an optogenetic robot, which you can dance with using a laser."	Bioengineering	Bioengineering	http://www.ebics.net	Eco-Illini Prototype	Bardeen Quad	outside MEL	The Eco-Illini are a group of engineering students that design and build a single person competition vehicle that is capable of extreme fuel economy. The	Eco-Illini	Mechanical Science and Engineering		Educational Power Software	Everitt Lab	50	An interactive demonstration of power flow in the electric grid! What happens when a power transmission line fails? How do grid operators keep electric generation equal to the power demand? Don't forget about losses in the lines?	Power and Energy Society	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Egg Drop	Transportation Building	202+203	"Back by popular demand, Gamma Epsilon and Alpha Pi Mu present the 2014 egg drop. Using limited materials, participants will have to engage their inner engineer to construct a design built well enough to protect an egg from breaking in a 2nd story plunge. Come find out if you and an egg can avoid cracking under pressure!"	Alpha Pi Mu and Gamma Epsilon	Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering	http://www.ise.illinois.edu	Electricity Generating Biomechanical Shoe	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	"Yes, it's not just a gym shoe! It's a biomechanical shoe that converts mechanical energy to electrical energy. You will be able to generate electricity whenever you take a step!The electricity generating biomechanical shoe can be applied to multiple areas in the real world. Using piezoelectric energy harvesting techniques, the shoe could potentially power a pacemaker (artificial heartbeat device), warm up a heating pad in winter or even charge cell phones and electronics. Another aim of the research is to not only make it wearable but also make it ergonomic with more flexible piezo-materials. The technique could also be implemented in floor tiles of a popular shopping mall so that visitors could generate electricity for shopping mall when they walk on the tiles."	Biomedical Engineering Society	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/	Electricity Room	Everitt Lab	170	"Come visits Physics Society's electricity room and let us electrify you. We will have a wide variety of demos showcasing the wonderful aspects of electromagnetism. Watch as our demonstrators shock themselves with Van de Graaff generators, launch rings with magnetic fields and much more!"	Physics Society	Physics		Engineering Better Bubbles	Loomis Lab	lobby	Kids and adults will get a chance to test out different bubble solutions and judge which they think is the best. Visitors can learn about the chemistry behind engineering better bubbles!	AIChE	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		Engineering Buffet	Transportation Building	206	"A sampling of smaller, interactive projects from a variety of engineering disciplines. Most of the projects are affordable and can be easily replicated and improved upon at home."	Engineering Freshmen Committee			Engineering Majors Fair	Digital Computer Lab	basement	Come learn about the different majors and departments at the University of Illinois.  Talk with representatives from every department!	University of Illinois			Engineers Without Borders: Ntisaw Village Partnership	Newmark Civil Engineering Lab	crane bay	"Come check out the work that the Partnership is doing in in the village of Ntisaw, Cameroon, in Africa. See a small-scale model of the horizontal wells and springbox that provide clean water to villagers, and learn about the positive effects that easy access to sanitary water has in developing countries like Cameroon."	Engineers Without Borders	Civil and Environmental Engineering	http://www.ewb-usa-uiuc.org	EOS Capstone Project	MatSE Building	100	"Second, third, and fourth grade students from Leal Elementary and Prairie Elementary will participate in an end of the year competition. Over the previous five weeks, students will have completed the engineering process of designing, budgeting, building, and testing their projects. This exhibit is an example of the type of engineering and science related projects Leal and Prairie students participate in weekly under the guidance of Engineering Outreach Society volunteers."	Engineering Outreach Society			Everyday Chemistry	Loomis Lab	lobby	Explore Chemistry everyday. You will see chemistry not just for the lab. Come and learn about Chemistry that is around you every day!	AIChE	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		Fermentation and Brewing Science	Loomis Lab	field across the street	"Come discover the science behind one of the oldest drinks in history, beer. Learn about the history and the chemistry behind brewing beer, from making the mash to pitching the yeast."	AIChE			Ferrofluids	MatSE Building	1st floor hallway south entrance	Ferrofluids are liquid magnets. Come learn how they work and what they can do for astronauts at our booth!	MSE 183	Materials Science and Engineering		fiARworks	Siebel Center	1st floor east hallway	Augmented Reality android app that detects sky in real time and projects fireworks onto it	Independent project	Computer Science		Flight Simulators	Talbot Lab	103	"Learn the basics of Flight through this hands-on, immersive experience. This student-built flight simulator is a popular attraction every year and is a great place to learn the basics of flight while flying through the clouds with our simulator."	AIAA	Aerospace Engineering	http://www.ewb-usa-uiuc.org	Floating Frying Pan	Everitt Lab	50	Cooking rice crispy treats in midair? Culinary device that acts and sounds like a spaceship teaches us about electromagnetic induction while making a tasty snack!	Power and Energy Society	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Floating Light Bulb	Everitt Lab	151	"The Floating Light Bulb: Uses two concepts from Electromagnetis, The magnetic levitation and magnetic induction(wireless power transfer)."	IEEE	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Fluid Frenzy	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2005	"Fluids... How interesting could that be? We interact with different fluids everyday but did you ever wonder why they behave the way they do? Come explore the realm of fluid mechanics and witness the wonders that simple fluids like water and soap can create. Also as a side note, beware of the corn starch monster!"	American Society of Mechanical Engineers	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://asme.mechse.illinois.edu	Forging	Bardeen Quad	outside	"The men of Triangle Fraternity are demonstrating traditional metallurgy and forging techniques with a home-built forge. Our men, with experience in metallurgy, will showcase our skills in bending and shaping metal."	Triangle Fraternity			Fun with Induction Stoves	MatSE Building	1st floor east hallway	"Ever wonder how your rice cooker works or wish your stove was smaller? Are you interested in having a more energy-efficient kitchen? Induction stoves meet all these conditions thanks to some very tough and heat-resistant materials called glass-ceramics. By heating a cooking vessel via electromagnetic induction, these stoves can achieve high temperatures very quickly, use very little electricity, and use no natural gas! Come stop at the exhibit to find out how these amazing devices work!"	Material Advantage	Materials Science and Engineering		Fun with Magnets!	Everitt Lab	163	"We have three different magnet-based projects. Each project will wow and amaze with the magic of magnets! We have the always classic ferrofluid exhibit, and two others that harness the invisible power of magnets and the physical properties of magnetic materials to create motion."	Theta Tau	Physics		Fun with Oobleck	Bardeen Quad	outside	"We will have a large container of the Non-Newtonian fluid Oobleck, which is a mixture of cornstarch and water, that visitors can interact with. Visitors can stick their hand in it, jump on it, run across it, etc..."	Sigma Phi Delta	Physics		Gamifying the Health Data Collection Process	Siebel Center	1st floor east hallway	"To fathom people's health we need accurate information and feedback from the users to guide researchers and doctors into the right path to improve an already existing method or create a new solution. Today, conducting online surveys is practiced as a common method to receive feedback from the general audience, but the collected data is often inaccurate and filled with falsification which impedes us to find a better solution. Recording recurring data can be a tedious and monotonous task that user's will provide false data rushing to end the process or forfeit in participating altogether. Studying into past experiments, and related works, we propose a new solution to end user's lack of participation and change the procedure into a fun and engaging experience rather than an aggravating one. Looking through many research papers, we came to the conclusion that gamifying health data collection process is the way."	Computer Science Department	Computer Science		Generator-Powered LED Bike Light	Everitt Lab	50	Bike lights are usually battery powered and are either we not very bright or are bright but drain the battery too quickly. Why get energy from a battery when you are creating energy while you ride your bike? We've created a bright LED bike light and turn signal system that is instantly powered when you start pedaling. The light system will even stay on while you are stopped at a stop light for up to two minutes. Come check out our innovative pedal-powered bike light and turn signal exhibition!	IEEE PELS/PES Student Chapter Branch	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Genetic Engineering	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	Come and learn about synthetic biology! Our exhibit explores the different possibilities available to scientists by altering the DNA inside of cells. Come over to see our glowing cells and discover the different possibilities genetic engineering offers to the future of biology!	Biomedical Engineering Society	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/	Geometric Model of the Visual Cortex	Altgeld Hall	239	How is parallel parking related to human vision? Come hear about the geometry that helps us model both situations from the undergraduate students researching the topic at the mathematics department.	Illinois Geometry Lab			Gesture-Controlled Quadcopter	Everitt Lab	260	The exhibit presents a mini quadcopter controlled by hand gestures. Come and experience this innovative yet intuitive way of controlling a flying robot.	IEEE	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Get Cool!	Mechanical Engineering Lab	1st floor west atrium	"Demonstration of air-conditioning system. Demonstration of a indirect evaporative cooler.High speed video of two phase flow and infrared image.Posters of ASHRAE student design competition."	Illinois ASHRAE student brance	Mechanical Science and Engineering		Girl's Club	Mechanical Engineering Lab	1228	"1) Lip balm - kids will be able to make their own lip balm by mixing vaseline, kook-aid, and glitter2) Dippin' Dots - kids will be able to see dippin' dots created by putting melted ice-cream in liquid nitrogen3) Thermal Imaging Camera Photo Both - Kids will be able to take funny pictures using a thermal imaging camera4) Motor Drawings - Using markers powered by DC motors kids will be able to create drawings5) Jewelry - Kids will color on recycled plastic that will be melted in the oven to create their own original jewelry"	SWE			Glove-Controlled Car	Everitt Lab	163	Here is an opportunity to drive around a toy car using just your fingertips!	Individual	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Glow-in-the-Dark Fun	Everitt Lab	57	"Luminescence is emission of light by a substance not resulting from heat. Chemical reactions, electrical energy, subatomic motions, or stress on a crystal can all cause light to be produced. We explore different aspects of chemiluminescence, bioluminescence, and fluorescence through glow in the dark algae, glowsticks, luminol and other chemical reactions. Come check us out!"	Alpha Chi Sigma	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		Gone in the Wind	Newmark Civil Engineering Lab	crane bay	This exhibit will have a Plexiglas model which will have a fan at one end to provide wind loads on a structure placed inside the model. Children will be able to make a small structure out of marshmallows and tooth picks. This will be tested in the Plexiglas model against wind loads at different fan speeds. Children will learn about designs and wind loads.	SEA	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Ground Adaptive Chemical Transportation Robot	Everitt Lab	245	"This project is to design a special robot for transporting volatile substances. The purpose is to minimize the vibration and inclination of the vehicle when moving on an uneven surface.The design actualizes the following functions: an omni-directional movement system that not only eliminates the centrifugal force when the vehicle turns but also makes the vehicle agile in compact lab environment, a ground adaption system based on a Stewart Platform that allows the vehicle to counteract uneven surface thus reduces vibration, and a real time wireless communicationchannel between the vehicle and an upper computer that provides features such as remote control and sensor data recording for further analysis."	IEEE Student Branch	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Groundwater Model	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	"We see water move across the earth's surface through rivers, lakes, and oceans, but there is also water moving beneath our feet constantly! Most of central Illinois retrieves its water from the Mahomet aquifer, but how does water get there and why is it okay to drink? Come visit our exhibit to learn how water moves from rain down to the groundwater and back up to your faucet!"	IWRA	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Guatemala Water Project	Newmark Civil Engineering Lab	crane bay	"Come learn about water purification through the use of biosand filters (BSFs). Our exhibit sports a running BSF along with a build-it-yourself miniature BSF station. Learn about our research that is conducted at University of Illinois and the implication of the filters in Guatemala. We have also begun designing a sensor that can remotely monitor BSFs in developing areas, and will be displaying it with a cross-section BSF that we constructed at UIUC."	Engineers Without Borders	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Hands-on Activities with NanoSTRuCT K-12	Micro and Nanotechnology Lab	1st floor atrium	"Nanoscale Science and Technology Resources for Community Teaching (NanoSTRuCT) involves an educational outreach collaboration between the Center for Nanoscale Science and Technology and the third grade class of Booker T. Washington (BTW) STEM Academy in Champaign. Throughout the semester, graduate student instructors have worked with BTW third graders to give them early exposure to nanoscale science and technology through interactive presentations, small group discussions, and tons of hands-on activities. Stop by the booth to see what the third graders have been learning about this spring."	IGERT/CNTC/EBICS	Bioengineering		Harry Potter Wand	Everitt Lab	241	Join the wizarding world of Harry Potter with our wand. With a magical flick of your wrist you can control electronics like lights and fans. Come and see if you have the magic touch.	WECE	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Hazards of Modern Spillway	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	This demonstration examines incredible flow dynamics as water over tops a spillway as well as the dangerous turbulent hydraulic jump which is generated downstream of the structure.	IAHR	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Hexapod	Everitt Lab	151	Come and witness an amazing six-legged robot. It utilizes 18 servo motors and a microcontroller to coordinate some pretty complex movements!	IEEE	Electrical and Computer Engineering		High Strength Concrete Competition	Newmark Civil Engineering Lab	crane bay	The American Concrete Institute Student Chapter at the University of Illinois provides a learning environment for students interested in all aspects of concrete. Visit our booth to cast your own concrete beverage coaster customized any way you like! These functional souvenirs cure quickly while you experience other Newmark Lab exhibits. We will also test high strength concrete cylinders throughout the event as part of a student competition.	American Concrete Institute	Civil and Environmental Engineering	http://go.illinois.edu/aci	High-Powered Rocketry	Bardeen Quad	outside	"Experience a demonstration of a high-powered rocket motor using a new engine test stand that will take Student Space Systems (SSS) to daring heights in the near future. SSS is a brand new RSO in the Aerospace Department focused on hands-on, high-powered rocketry. Come see our built rockets that can already soar to 10,000 feet and hear about our bold plans to take them to space in the coming years. Get a taste of everything from the basics of rocketry, to the complex electrical and robotic systems we plan on incorporating into our rockets and launches systems. Hear about our exciting partnership with the CubeSat organization on campus, and learn about how we are going to send these mini satellites into space. Finally, discover our special side-projects, including our intentions for a liquid-fueled rocket engine as well as a rover project."	Student Space Systems	Aerospace Engineering		Hoarders Game	Siebel Center	1st floor east hallway	"Horders is a 2D videogame created by Luke Puchner-Hardman and Ryan Norby as part of ACM Gamebuilders. The game is a hack-and-slash dungeon crawler where you play as a hoarder. Enemies drop items that give you bonuses when stored inside your house. There is no limit to how many items you can gather and the more you have, the stronger you get! The game is written in C++ with SFML and runs on Linux and Windows."	ACM Gamebuilders	Computer Science		Hovercraft	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	Ridable hovercraft that floats on a cushion of air several inches above the floor. Powered by leafblowers	IEFX Projects			How does water move sediment?	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	"We see sand in beaches and rivers, but how does it get there? We use two apparatus to demonstrate how sediment by a river and in the ocean! These different mechanisms have great impacts on the distribution of sediment and effect how our natural lakes, rivers, and canyons are formed."	IAHR	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Hybrid Bike 	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	"Have you ever wanted to ride a bike but didn't want to pedal? Are you going up a hill and need a bit of help? Come check out The Hybrid Bike, a bicycle with an integrated motor and pedal system that lets you ride, pedal, or both! A one way ratchet design allows you to pedal along with the motor, or sit back and let the motor do the work for you. Make sure to stop by!"	IEFX Projects			Hybrid Rocket Engine	Bardeen Quad	outside	Observe the physics of rocket engines close up with this test stand model of a hybrid rocket engine! This engine's clear combustion chamber will let you see the entire process from ignition to exhaust. You will also see why a nozzle is needed and the different shapes commonly used on real rockets.	Illinois Space Society	Aerospace Engineering		Hydrogels	MatSE Building	2nd floor east hallway	"Come learn about hydrogels and their applications in the biomaterials world! Hydrogels' characteristics vary greatly across different types and chemical compositions: some are able to absorb water and multiply in size by over 100 times while others are astonishing in terms of strength to weight ratios. Learn about all of the hydrogels you may have already encountered, and their current and potential applications in areas such as gene and drug delivery!"	Material Advantage	Materials Science and Engineering		HYVE-Touch Synthesizer	Everitt Lab	143	Your fingers become part of the circuit to create harmonies and melodies on this 60-note polyphonic analog synthesizer with a multi touch keyboard and hexagon chord array	ECE Restoration Project	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Ice Cream Stand	Loomis Lab	lobby	Ever wonder how dippin dots were made? We'll show you how regular ice cream can be turned into this delicious treat using liquid nitrogen. Come get free homemade dippin dots!	American Institute of Chemical Engineers	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		Idle RPG	Siebel Center	1st floor east hallway	"In the quest to learn Javascript, Matt whipped together a simple Idle RPG. Come check it out."	ACM Gamebuilders	Computer Science		Illini EcoConcept	Bardeen Quad	outside MEL	"Discover how Hydrogen, the mostabundant element in the universe, canbe used to power a car! Learn just howa fuel cell produces, stores, and usesHydrogen to run a motor. Explore the fascinating, clean technology of Hydrogen fuel cells andthe future of transportation!"	Illini EcoConcept	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://www.illiniecoconcept.com/	Illini Formula Electric	Bardeen Quad	outside MEL	We will be showcasing our new car for the new season. We will also have demos to show how our car works. We will also be running our low voltage electronics.	Illini Formula Electric	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://illiniformulaelectric.com	Illini Motorsports Formula SAE	Bardeen Quad	outside MEL	"Illini Motorsports is the Formula SAE team at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Each year we design, manufacture, test and race a miniature formula style race car and compete in multiple international comeptitions."	Illini Motorsports Formula SAE	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://www.motorsports.illinois.edu	Illini Pullers 1/4 Scale Pulling Tractor	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	"The Illini Pullers is a student ran extracurricular organization affiliated with the Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering that designs, builds, and markets a new tractor 1/4 scale pulling tractor each year to compete in the ASABE 1/4 Scale International Student Design Competition in June along with about 25 other universities from across the United States and Canada. The team will be displaying the newest design for the 2014 competition, which will consist of one 31 HP Briggs and Stratton engine and featuring the new Infinitely Variable Transmission (IVT) design. In addition, past tractors will also be on display."	Illini Pullers	Agricultural and Biological Engineering		Illinois Biodiesel Innitiative	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2nd floor hallway	"The Illinois Biodiesel Initiative is saving the environment, one french fry at a time! Our biodiesel, made from waste vegetable oil, helps power campus maintenance vehicles. Come check out our go-kart, powered on our very own fuel. See an 80 gallon reactor, and hear all about how the process works. Even use some of our soap made from biodiesel glycerin!"	Illinois Biodiesel Innitiative		http://biodiesel.uiuc.edu	Illinois Center for Tansportation	Newmark Civil Engineering Lab	crane bay	"People drive on roads every day, but most probably don't think about all of the research that goes into making the pavement we drive on safe, cost-effective, and long-lasting. This exhibit shows how pavement is made with a kid-friendly and tasty demonstration and shows what kinds of research goes on at the Illinois Center for Transportation."	Illinois Center for Transportation	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Illinois Novaree	Bardeen Quad	outside	This is a showcase for the Illinois Novaree STEM-focused Boy Scouts of America Merit Badge Clinic we are holding on campus this April. We plan to use EOH to increase interest as well as to talk about why we decided to start this initiative and why we chose to base it around STEM fields.	Individual		http://www.ict.illinois.edu/index.aspx	Illinois Robotics in Space (Autonomous Robot)	Everitt Lab	241	"Illinois Robotics in Space (IRIS) participates in the NASA Robotic Mining Competition. The objective is to build a robot that can autonomously mine and deposit regolith on extraterrestrial objects such as the Moon. The IRIS Educational Outreach team designed a game to demonstrate communication difficulties with the Martian rovers. Players will race RC cars fitted with an Arduino board around a track outside the room using the camera mounted on the cars. Images from the rovers will be sent to the player's laptop at set interval of a few seconds while the sonar sensor on the car is always available to detect obstacles at a short range."	Illinois Robotics in Space Educational Outreach	Aerospace Engineering	http://iris.ae.illinois.edu/	Indoor UAV Navigation	Everitt Lab	260	Come watch a quadrotor navigate through a room through a student built indoor positioning system and perform various flight tasks.	IEEE	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Infinity Mirror LED Table	Everitt Lab	151	Enjoy a spectacular feast for the eyes by combining optical illusions with electrical engineering concepts applied to LEDs.	IEEE	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Ioncraft	Everitt Lab	257	An ioncraft is an ion-propelled aircraft that generates lift through an electrohydrodynamic phenomenon. This mechanism allows the craft to suspend itself in air without any moving parts or combustion!	Physics Society	Physics		iRobotics Drive and Destroy!	Bardeen Quad	outside	"Visitors can watch ComBots drive around and destroy old electronics in a polycarbonate cage! Visitors are encouraged to bring any old cellphones, printers, or anything else that they want destroyed! Visitors can also drive our VEX Robots around to get the full robotics experience!"	iRobotics	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://irobotics.tk	ISS Tech Projects	Talbot Lab	104	"Learn about the many fascinating technical projects happening in the Illinois Space Society! From rockets to space stations, all these projects are designed and constructed entirely by students and will be entered into national competitions."	Illinois Space Society	Aerospace Engineering		Lego LEED	Newmark Civil Engineering Lab	crane bay	"What can be more fun than playing with Legos? Lego LEED is a fun, interactive way for students of all ages to learn about green building and sustainability. Through this hands-on activity, visitors can build their very own environmentally friendly homes with Legos, adding on items such as solar panels and wind mills. Challenge your skills by trying to get the most amount of points on the Lego LEED scorecard while using the least amount of items! You can also make a green pledge by promising to do something simple to help the planet. If you are interested in learning about sustainability and going green, come visit our exhibit!"	U.S. Green Building Council Students UIUC	Civil and Environmental Engineering	http://usgbcuiuc.wordpress.com/	Life Changing Catalysts	Loomis Lab	field across the street	"Carbon emissions are a growing concern in today's society,A sharp increase over the years has led to great anxiety.The Catalytic Converter was developed to reduce car emissions;To change our wonderful planet's worsening conditions. We've arranged a demonstration for all to see;So stop on by Loomis Laboratory!"	American Institute of Chemical Engineers	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		Light Ion	Loomis Lab	lobby	"What do chemical engineers do when it's dark? They turn the ""Light Ion!"" Draw your own glowing paths of light while admiring the glow of a lime green liquid called flourescein. We will illuminate any darkness left with a series of glowing pickles! What color will be they be and how will we do it? You'll have to stop by to find out! "	AIChE	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		Lighting Effects from a TI-84	Everitt Lab	168	"Do you think your graphing calculator can only do math and play puzzle games? Think again! This exhibit will show you how much more it can do with a little hacking. Using a custom-built adapter and driver software, a regular TI-84 can control and coordinate hundreds of theater lights, which means it can run anything from complicated theater performances to fancy Christmas light shows. The Arduino-based adapter uses some of the same technology as traditional PC-to-DMX adapters but at a fraction of the cost. This project shows that even simple devices like graphing calculators have endless possibilities when you keep an open mind.Visitors curious about the hardware, software, and protocols are invited to come and learn about the technical details. All are welcome to stop by for a high-level description of the project and to see some cool lighting effects."	Individual	Computer Science		Lithium-Ion Batteries: Structure and Efficiency	Altgeld Hall	239	"Have you ever wondered how a battery works? Come and see how Math, Chemistry, and Computer Science combine to develop optimal designs for Lithium-Ion Batteries. You can even try and design your own battery. Can you come up with a better design than the Campus Cluster!?"	Illinois Geometry Lab			Live Texture Classification	Siebel Center	1st floor west hallway	"Most modern object recognition programs are built around texture classification of one form or another because texture is a very strong cue to object identity and material properties. In this exhibit, we will show a live demo of texture classification (for example, detecting human hair) using a web cam."	Individual	Computer Science		Lock and Dams for Elevating Heavy Loads	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	Have you ever wondered how ancient Egyptians transported large blocks of stone? These stone blocks which were as large as 70 tons were used for construction of pyramids and other structures. Some historians believe that Egyptian engineers used small channels configured with locks and dams to allow laborers to elevate miniature barges from the Nile River. This exhibit illustrates a scale model of how this engineering project might have looked like. Come play with the scale model exhibit and use the barges to transport blocks of rock from the river to the work site.	IAHR	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Magnetic Levitation	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2005	"How much do you know about magnets? Well, did you know you could levitate magnets with simple copper tubes? Come learn how we built this amazingly simple experiment where we levitate magnets and learn how you could do it at home!"	American Society of Mechanical Engineers	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://asme.mechse.illinois.edu	Magnetic Ring Cannon	Everitt Lab	50	Launch a ring across the room with the press of a button. Come see electromagnets in action! Entertainment for young and old alike!	Power and Energy Society	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Make Your Own Earthquake!	Newmark Civil Engineering Lab	crane bay	"Younger students will be able to make their own earthquake by jumping on a pressure plate. They will receive a printout of the ""earthquake"" they created as well as a brief explanation of how an earthquake is created. In addition, the EERI seismic design team will be showing their designs for the seismic design competition, explaining the competition and design process."	Earthquake Engineering Research Institute at UIUC	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Make your own Solar Panels!	Everitt Lab	163	Come and make a take home solar panel and learn how solar energy is going to be used in the future.	ECE Restoration Project	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Making Sense	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	"Most current prosthetic devices focus on restoration of movement with little attention given to the lack of sensory feedback that also accompanies limb loss. In order for prosthetic devices to more fully replicate the functions of a missing limb, our team is developing an artificial sensory system to provide feedback to device users. Our project and similar technologies will be implemented in the coming years, leading to more natural, functional artificial limb systems. We think that it just makes sense."	Biomedical Engineering Society	Bioengineering		Marshmallow Bridges	Newmark Civil Engineering Lab	crane bay	"We will be letting spectators take a shot a making a bridge out of marshmallows and toothpicks. We will provide both large and small marshmallows and toothpicks. Spectators can do competitions among themselves for strongest, height, or length or bridge."	American Society of Civil Enigneers	Civil and Environmental Engineering	http://publish.illinois.edu/americansocietyofcivilengineers/	Mechse MNMS Cleanroom	Mechanical Engineering Lab	MEL	Video recordings of inside the MNMS cleanroom along with a cleanroom suit and fabricated devices	Mechanical Science and Engineering Department	Mechanical Science and Engineering		Medicine Toxicity Testing	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	"In the development of new pharmaceutical drugs, toxicity is an important consideration when applying for FDA approval of a new medicine or therapy. This project seeks to explore common techniques that use cell cultures instead of animal or human test subjects to evaluate the toxic effects that new candidate drugs can have on living cells by testing various over-the-counter compounds. Drug delivery methods for controlled release of a compound, such as drug encapsulation in hydrogels, will also be explored to determine how these methods can reduce the toxic effects of drugs on cells."	Biomedical Engineering Society	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/	Metals Sideshow	MatSE Building	3rd floor east hallway	"Step right up! Feast your eyes on some of the most spectacular metals we have to offer! In this mind-boggling exhibit, we'll be showcasing the broad range of properties which metals demonstrate! Witness as Aluminum cans are crushed under hundreds of times their own weight, yet are blown away with a gentle breeze when attacked with Gallium! Contort the Nitinol wire however you see fit! It doesn't matter because by simply heating the wire it can be restored to normal thanks to shape memory alloys! These metals definitely aren't like anything you've seen before!"	Materials Advantage	Materials Science and Engineering		MNTL Cleanroon	Micro and Nanotechnology Lab	1st floor atrium	"In this exhibit, we explore the realm that enables micro and nanotechnology research. Specifically, we will provide tours of our 16 cleanroom laboratories, explain some of the infrastructure that supports them, and highlight why these special cleanroom environments are so important for cutting edge research. Additionally, we will illuminate our state-of-the-art lab equipment, including an atomic force microscope (AFM), scanning electron microscopes (SEM), an electron beam lithography system, a nanoimprint lithography system, reactive ion etcher (RIE) systems, evaporators, sputtering systems, metal-organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) systems, and a molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) system. This equipment is used in a wide variety of multidisciplinary research projects from optoelectronics to micro and nanoelectromechanical systems (MEMS/NEMS) as well as bionanotechnology. There will be hands on demonstrations and lab tours, and you will get a glimpse of what nanotechnology research is all about. We will also provide special cleanroom garments that people can try on and take pictures while wearing, so bring your cameras. Please come visit us on Friday as we will not be open on Saturday."	MNTL			Moonshine	Loomis Lab	field across the street	"This exhibit will provide a brief overview of the history of moonshine and its production. Additionally, we will show how modern engineering techniques can be used to improve traditional moonshining methods."	AIChE	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		Motion in Transportation	Newmark Civil Engineering Lab	crane bay	Several informative posters and hands on games for everyone to get to know a bit more about Transportation Engineering.	Institute of Transportation Engineers	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Multistage Coil Gun	Everitt Lab	50	"Using multiple capacitor banks and coils of wire, this coilgun launches projectiles with impressive speed."	Power and Energy Society	Electrical and Computer Engineering		My Lantern	Siebel Center	1st floor west hallway	"Videogame in development for a few months. 2D puzzle platformer, that takes several complicated game mechanics (e.g. Gravity control, time control, platform construction) and attempts to make them work together to solve puzzles."	ACM Gamebuilders	Computer Science		Nerve Game	Siebel Center	1st floor west hallway	"Making a computer game that people will enjoy is tough, especially when you are programming a lot of the game engine yourself. My project, currently called ""Nerve,"" is an attempt to create a game engine that runs an action-packed game idea that I have had in my head for a while."	ACM Gamebuilders	Computer Science		Net Zero Model ECE Building	Everitt Lab	1st floor hallway	"This exhibit is a model of the new Electrical and Computer Engineering building that is expected to open in the Fall of 2014. Just like the real building, the model will be net zero energy and use miniature solar panels to deliver power to the lights and other features. This is an accurate first glimpse of what the exciting new building for the ECE department will be."	IEEE PES/PELS	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Neural Prosthetic Control	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	"Sit back, relax, and maneuver a prosthetic arm using only the power of your mind! The EPOC neuroheadset relies on EEG technology to measure the thought-specific brain activity that initiates arm movement. Neural control will eventually provide amputees with a more natural, fully functional prosthetic limb."	Biomedical Engineering Society	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/	Non-Newtonian Fluids	MatSE Building	2nd floor west hallway	Ever wonder why ketchup gets stuck inside a bottle or wet paint doesn't drip off the walls? Come learn about non-Newtonian fluids!	MSE 183	Materials Science and Engineering		Oil Spill	Loomis Lab	lobby	A demonstration and comparison of the multiple ways used today to clean up an oil spill.	AIChE	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		oMG - oSTEM@Illinois Molecular Gastronomy	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	"oMG is where science and food collide to make fun and interesting food. We'll help YOU ""bake"" a cake out of nothing but whipped cream, yogurt, and liquid nitrogen. Maybe orange sorbet is more up your alley? We'll concoct some from orange juice and more liquid nitrogen! We'll even show you how to turn everyday peanut butter or NUTELLA into space food! Large groups are more than welcome!"	oSTEM at Illinois		http://ostem.ec.illinois.edu/	Oobleck Demo	MatSE Building	1st floor north hallway	"It is easy to create different shapes with clay and dough, but imagine being able to do it with a liquid! Come to our booth to learn more about oobleck and its unique qualities!"	Keramos	Materials Science and Engineering		Orbital Simulator	Talbot Lab	104	Gravity: it causes the earth to go around the sun and black holes to pull in everything. Explore some of the weird effects of this common force as you try to put a satellite in to an orbit or let a planet fall into a black hole with this hands on simulator.	Illinois Space Society	Aerospace Engineering		oSTEM@Illinois Presentation of Society	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	"oSTEM@Illinois is a professional society for LGBTQA individuals in the STEM feilds. It stands for Out in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math. We foster a safe, open space in the greater Illinois campus community and hold professional development and networking opportunities open to all!"	oSTEM at Illinois			Paper and Play Dough Circuits	Loomis Lab	lobby	"Make a lightbulb light up using pencil and paper! Draw your name, draw a landscape, draw your dog! Your art turns the paper into a circuit!"	SWIP	Physics		Party Rock Illinois	Everitt Lab	165	"Party Rock Illinois syncs a variety of lights, lasers, and LEDs to music. Visitors can expect an interactive exhibit to play with the lights!"	Party Rock Illinois	Electrical and Computer Engineering		PasswordKey	Everitt Lab	151	"This device holds your password to your facebook/email/etc in its memory. Whenever you need your password, you can press a button on the PasswordKey and it will put your password into your computer as a Keyboard device. An upgraded version of PasswordKey will require a user to scan their fingerprint, and the password will only be released upon the user's fingerprint being scanned.This can help people save time, and useful in case a password is forgotten."	Individual	Computer Science		Pedal for Power	Everitt Lab	50	Ever wondered how much work it would be to power your home off of a bicycle? Come find out and feel the energy savings offered by florescent and LED lighting. You will never think about turning on a light switch the same way again.	Power and Energy Society	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Peeps In Spaaaace	MatSE Building	1st floor north hallway	"What happens to a peep in space? How realistic was the movie, Gravity? Can you hear a fireball in space? What does fire look like in a vacuum? Stop by and find out. Vacuums aren't just for carpets."	AVS Student Chapter	Materials Science and Engineering	http://uiucavs.org/	Penny Battery	Everitt Lab	163	Did you know it is possible to make a battery entirely out of pennies? No? Then come visit our interactive exhibit! You will also get the chance to make a simple electric motor and electromagnet for free!	Alpha Omega Epsilon		http://www.aoetheta.org/	Perils of a Dam Break	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	"Dams are one of the most imposing engineering structures ever made and therefore play a large role in transforming the world around them. On the positive side they can be used to generate clean energy, make rivers more navigable, mitigate frequent flooding of rivers and provide water for irrigation. However, they can contribute to large-scale displacement of people, increase in pollution, and unintended and often disastrous physical and environmental changes around the river. Dam failures can very easily dwarf these other drawbacks as massive erosion, flooding, and landslide events will cause catastrophic efffects downstream. This exhibit uses a simple physical model to examine the extent of damage caused by a Dam Break. How do parameters like height of the Dam and rate of breach impact the effects downstream."	IAHR	Civil and Environmental Engineering		PetroWorld	Loomis Lab	lobby	The purpose of this exhibit is to expose visitors to the oil and gas industry in the field of drilling and recovery. Visitors will learn through interactive and meaningful demonstrations. One demonstration provides a chemical background to oil recovery through the principles of density and fluid pressure. The next demonstration will consist of drilling through different layers created from crude mimicking fluids enclosed within styrofoam layers in a large container. The different geological levels will be discussed as well as how oil reserves are found using seismic technology. The audience will be able to drill into the demonstration itself to see if they can strike oil!	AIChE	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering	http://www.scs.illinois.edu/aiche/	Pi Tau Sigma Lego Mindstorms	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2001	Control Lego Mindstorm Robots through an obstacle course!	Pi Tau Sigma Mechanical Engineering Honor Society	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://pitausigma.mechse.illinois.edu	Pi Tau Sigma Sand Casting	Mechanical Engineering Lab	Sand Casting Lab	Make neat aluminum parts through sand casting and learn about the sand casting process!	Pi Tau Sigma Mechanical Engineering Honor Society	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://pitausigma.mechse.illinois.edu	Pi Tau Sigma T-Shirt Cannon	Bardeen Quad	north of Talbot Lab	The Pi Tau Sigma special projects team has a cool t-shirt cannon to show off!	Pi Tau Sigma Mechanical Engineering Honor Society	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://pitausigma.mechse.illinois.edu	Piano Man	MatSE Building	4th floor east hallway	"Come see how electronic materials such as piezoelectrics and LEDs can be used to make a musical keyboard, built with student-designed 3D-printed parts! Then learn about how each of these materials work, and find out where they're used in your everyday life!"	Materials Advantage	Materials Science and Engineering		Piezoelectrics	MatSE Building	3rd floor west hallway	Piezoelectrics are a special type of materials that can generate electricity when their shape changes! Come learn how these cool materials are being used to power everything from touch screens to guitar pick ups.	MSE 183	Materials Science and Engineering		Plasma Confinement	Everitt Lab	163	"Using vacuum and high voltage technology, the men of Triangle Fraternity have engineered a device that confines plasma, a glowing gas, to a spherical grid. Simple nuclear reactors use this same principle, inertial electrostatic confinement, to operate. Our exhibit demonstrates how glowing plasma interacts with electricity and magnetism."	Triangle Fraternity	"Nuclear, Plasma, and Radiological Engineering"		Playing dice with numbers: From dragon curves to monkey faces	Altgeld Hall	239	"The sequence of whole numbers 1,2,3,.. has many random-like properties that can be used to generate ""digital coin toss sequences"" that mimick a sequence of actual coin tosses. In this project, we use such digital coin toss sequences to construct curves in the plane that, with small tweaks in the parameters, can take on an amazing variety of geometric shapes, from dragon-like curves to distinctive geometric patterns to shapes that resemble monkey faces. Visitors can explore these shapes, and perhaps discover newones, through interactive computer demos."	Illinois Geometry Lab			Pollution You Can't Pinpoint	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	"""Water pollution from sources such as waste water treatment plants or factories can be monitored and controlled at a single location, but how do we deal with non-point source pollution? Non-point means that the excess nutrients or toxins enter the stream from a large land area rather than a single spot. For example, fertilizer applied onto farmlands in Illinois can run off into ditches during storms and cause environmental problems. This exhibit demonstrates non point source pollution from farmland and urban areas using colorful """"pollutants"""" or drink mix powders that run off the land into ditches and streams. Methods of filtering or eliminating pollutants are introduced."	IAHR	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Polly Wants a Polymer?	Loomis Lab	lobby	Come find us to explore the world of polymers. Experience snow and sand in the spring! Learn about three different polymers and how these molecules help us everyday.	AIChE	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		Polymer-Cross-Linking	MatSE Building	100	Ever wondered why some plastics are stiff while others can bend? Come learn how with this fun demo involving polymer molds!	MSE 183	Materials Science and Engineering		Positioning Underwater Robots where GPS cannot reach	Talbot Lab	225A	"Positioning is critical for navigating, controlling and maneuvering underwater robots. Global Positioning System (GPS) has been a great success for locating everyone and everything on earth with full access to GPS satellites. However, GPS has very limited capability for locating underwater vehicles, because the 1.5GHz GPS signals suffers large propagation loss through water, and even cannot reach objects that are only one foot underwater. The EOH project is to demonstrate positioning underwater robots where GPS cannot reach. The idea is to build an underwater robot system with surfacing nodes and underwater. The surfacing nodes receive GPS signals and relay their GPS information to the underwater robots. The underwater robots are linked via acoustic signals, which provides relative distance measurements. Positioning of the underwater robots is calculated by integrating the absolute GPS information from the surfacing nodes and relative distances from the underwater mobile nodes. "	Aerospace Engineering Department	Aerospace Engineering	http://gao.ae.illinois.edu/	POV Clock	Everitt Lab	168	"Persistence of Vision Clock, is a mechanically scanned LED clock with light emitting diodes that spin, giving the illusion of numbers floating in the air."	IEEE	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Power of Waves	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	I am the EOH coordinator for the Hydro Lab so I am putting my name on all exhibits even though the work is being split up among the student chapters of IAHR and IWRA.	IAHR			Powertrekk: Portable Hydrogen Fuel Cell	Bardeen Quad	outside	"Imagine charging your phone or laptop with just water! The PowerTrekk Portable Fuel Cell Charger uses hydrogen fuel cell technology to produce hydrogen gas which reacts with oxygen in the air to produce electricity. With PowerTrekk, as long as you have a water-based solution, you will be able to produce usable electrical energy."	AIChE	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		Pulse Jet	Bardeen Quad	outside	"A pulse jet is a simple jet engine with almost no moving parts. It's not too economical to run, but it sure knows how to put on a good show. It glows red hot, and it's really loud!"	Individual	Aerospace Engineering		Quadcopter	Bardeen Quad	outside	"We have created a quad rotor, remote-controlled copter which purpose is to survey designated areas of intrusion or unmapped areas. Creating a functional quad rotor that can perform stable flight and basic maneuvers, relay live feed video from an onboardcamera to a nearby computer, and successfully return intact to the user, would decrease the risk of human injuries and fatalities and provide an economically feasible alternative in the field of reconnaissance."	Aerospace Engineering	Aerospace Engineering		Quicksand Tank	Newmark Civil Engineering Lab	crane bay	"GESO presents a Quicksand/Liquefaction tank which demonstrates the mechanism of quicksand while addressing common myths and questions, e.g. can you sink in quicksand?The exhibit also shows the potential danger liquefiable soil has on surface structures along with engineering solutions to mitigate these risks. The presenters will explain that earthquakes are actually possible in the central United States and what research is currently occurring at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign on earthquake hazards."	GESO	Civil and Environmental Engineering	http://publish.illinois.edu/geostudents/	Racing Down the River	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	"Participants construct and race paper boats down the Kinoshita meandering flume in the lab. As the boats follow the flow paths around the bends in the river, participants observe the effects of bends in a river. The boats have to cross obstacles and navigate through the river without getting caught to reach the finish line first."	IWRA	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Rail Extravaganza!	Newmark Civil Engineering Lab	crane bay	"The AREMA Student Chapter at UIUC, in association with the Rail Transportation and Engineering Center (RailTEC), are proud to present an exciting display featuring exhibits from major US railroads, Operation Lifesaver, a train simulator, and educational games highlighting the railroads' role in transportation and the engineering challenges they face."	American Railway Engineering and Maintenance-of-Way Association Student Chapter at UIUC	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Rapid Prototyping	Mechanical Engineering Lab	Rapid Prototyping Lab	3D printing. See how plastic parts are being made for rapid prototyping and small production runs.	Mechanical Science and Engineering Department	Mechanical Science and Engineering		Rivers in Ice	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	"Watch as an ice river forms in front of your eyes. Water is poured over a large block of ice, cutting into the ice and forming a stream. As the water causes the ice to melt, bends form in the stream, which meander and cut down into the ice. There will be limited showings, so come before it melts away!Due to limited amount of materials this experiment will start at 10am Friday and Saturday only."	IAHR	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Rocket Rabbit	Siebel Center	1304	"Rocket Rabbit is a short animated film created by the members of UIUC ACM SIGGRAPH. The film was created with the 3D modeling and animation studio, Blender. Stop by and watch the film! Showings will be held every quarter hour."	ACM SIGGRAPH	Computer Science		Rocket Races	Bardeen Quad	Boneyard Creek	"Come out to Boneyard Creek and experience an exhilarating between two rockets! Grab a seat on the steps of Boneyard Creek for the best views and if you have any questions about rocketry or aerospace in general, our lovely volunteers will be glad to answer them. Races will be on a 15 minute basis."	AIAA	Aerospace Engineering	http://aiaa.ae.illinois.edu/?q=aiaa/	Rube Goldberg Machine: Despicable Me	Engineering Hall	106B6	"Join Gru and the minions (from the movie, ""Despicable Me"",) as they test run their newest creation: a Rube Goldberg machine designed to zip a zipper!"	Rube Goldberg Society			SAE Baja - Offroad Illini	Bardeen Quad	outside MEL	"Every year we design, build, and race a brand new one-seat off-road vehicle. Come check out our cars from the past few years and get an inside look on the developing car for this year, as well as a chance to talk to the team and hear about some of our design choices.In recent years we have competed everywhere from Washington state to New York. Last year we placed 21st out of ~100 teams, and this year we're looking to do even better. We're one team to keep a lookout for!"	Society of Automotive Engineers	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://www.illinimotorsports.net/bajasite/wordpress/	Sandbox + Hydrology = Fun	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	Kid friendly exhibit! Come to the Hydrolab to play in the sand! We create streams and lakes with water flowing through our sandbox to show how these natural features change in real life. What happens if you fill in a river? Does placement of a bridge impact the river shape? These are just a few of the questions you can learn about here!	IWRA	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Schrodinger's Cat in a Box	Loomis Lab	field across the street	"Does quantum mechanics confuse you? Don't worry, we're here to help! Learn about one of the most important ideas of the modern age in a fun, easy, and interactive way!"	SWIP	Physics		SeaPerch -- Race for the Prize	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	Participants will race remote control submarine robots through an obstacle course to scan a QR code target. Those that finish in time will receive a celebratory photo via email! Participants will get first-hand experience with a SeaPerch robot and learn more about the new science competition for Middle and High School students!	IWRA	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Self-Healing Materials	MatSE Building	5th floor east hallway	"Whenever you get a cut on your skin, your body reacts automatically to stop the bleeding and heal you. During this exhibit see how it is possible for materials to exhibit similar types of healing, and how it is applicable to many objects in your life!"	Materials Advantage	Materials Science and Engineering		Shape Memory Alloys	MatSE Building	100	"Come learn how this material can remember its shape, even when changed!"	MSE 183	Materials Science and Engineering		SIGMusic's Interactive Experiments	Siebel Center	1214	"Th is exhibit will feature musical interactive applications of the Microsoft Kinect and LEAP Motion. It is intended to be a small collection of projects where goers can try out simple and fun applications of new interactive technologies."	Association for Computing Machinery	Computer Science	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/	SK	Siebel Center	1st floor west hallway	A game being developed independently in a vein similar to Megaman or Metroid. Explore and shoot things.	ACM Gamebuilders	Computer Science		Skeletal Muscle Bioreactor	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	"Our team's mission is to improve the production of skeletal muscle cells. This will allow synthetic meat to become a viable option, lessening the strain on our environment. Our team drives to stimulate myoblast cells to increase skeletal muscle differentiation by varying the electrical and mechanical environment of the cells."	Biomedical Engineering Society	Bioengineering		SmartDots	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	"We are formulating the SmartDots Application, an app which gathers positional data from wearable sensors in real-time, and serves users for a variety of purposes: SmartDots functions as a rehabilitative tool for correcting misalignment in physical therapy patients, injury prevention in exercise (ie. hyperextension), as well as passive adjustment in intermittent, broken posture."	Biomedical Engineering Society	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/	Smarter Healthcare	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	"The healthcare system is quickly changing; from the digitization of medical records to having Watson learn to diagnose patients. It is obvious that we are about to experience a huge technological revolution in this field, but many are still unaware of this soon-to-be restructuring. Our project serves as a demonstration of the power of data mining and statistical modeling techniques within the healthcare industry, while pointing out key areas that can highly benefit from their inclusion."	"SigArt, BMES"	Computer Science		Solar Command	Siebel Center	1st floor east hallway	"Solar Command is a session-based collectible card game for Android with strategy elements. Players must use a variety of card representing ships, planets, upgrades, and more to conquer the opponent's capital world. We will be demoing the game at the booth."	ACM Gamebuilders	Computer Science		Solar Energy	Everitt Lab	50	"Solar energy promises to be an important source of energy in the future! Come see how light is converted into electricity and why it is important to keep your solar panels clean! Also, learn about maximum power point tracking (MPPT), and see how an MPPT converter can be used to charge a battery."	Power and Energy Society	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Soppo Likoko Bridge Project	Newmark Civil Engineering Lab	crane bay	"In early 2013 when the community of Soppo Likoko, Cameroon, began a partnership with the UIUC chapter of Engineers Without Borders, with the aims of constructing a bridge that provides year-round access between the community and the nearby city of Buea. Come see how students are using technical skills to meet a real-world need in rural Cameroon!"	Engineers Without Borders	Civil and Environmental Engineering	http://ewb-usa-uiuc.com	Sound On Film	Everitt Lab	143	"Welcome back to the year 1922, where, here at the University of Illinois, a breakthrough was made in film: the ability to put sound on film. While this technology is often something we take for granted these days, we have restored a film projector using this process and are giving you the rare opportunity to view some of the University's own fild reel ""What is the future of Engineering"". We will have viewings on Friday at 11am, 1pm, and 3pm and on Saturday at 10am and 12pm. This is a show you won't want to miss. Can't make it during those times? Come see the original film digitally redone from that breakthrough day in 1922."	ECE Restoration Project	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Space Shuttle Tile and Liquid Nitrogen	Talbot Lab	103	"Explore some the hottest and coldest aspects of flying the space shuttle! The heat resistive properties of an actual space shuttle tile will be showcased dramatically as you learn about the design challenge of reentry heating. Then, discover the uses of liquid nitrogen, one of the coldest liquids you will ever see, aboard the space shuttle and this extreme cold's effect on everyday objects like balloons, flowers, pennies, and even a (still edible) marshmallow!"	Illinois Space Society	Aerospace Engineering		Spaghetti Tower Consulting Competition	Transportation Building	114	"The exhibit will display participants' creativity and problem solving skills by making a tower from spaghetti noodles. Given certain amount of spaghetti noodle, masking tape, string, and a certain amount of time, participants are expected to make a tower from these materials. The goal is to make the tallest and strongest tower. All towers must hold up at least one small marshmallow. We will keep an updated winners' board for both the strongest and the tallest tower. This activity encourages participants to think like consultants. They will decide what kind of tower that they want to build, and how to build the tower. After they finished or reached the time limit, participants are expected to show their tower and give brief description how they decided to build their tower. The towers will then be tested using a measuring tape to measure height and books to determine strength. Winners will be added to the winners' board accordingly. Along with the winners board, there will be informational posters on CUBE Consulting and its current consulting projects."	Engineering Initiatives		http://www.cubeillinois.com/	"Statics, Dynamics & S'more Mechanics"	Mechanical Engineering Lab	1st floor atrium	"Society of Experimental Mechanics will be displaying the square wheels, engine hoist, space artificial gravity, and ocean dome living in order to start people, whether they're prospective students, children, or adults, thinking about the world around them. Come and have fun with the spirited SEMers who could give you a vivid explanation on s'more mechanics!"	Society of Experimental Mechanics	Mechanical Science and Engineering		Stormwater Floodplain Model	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	Flooding is an annual concern both in Illinois and throughout the world. What can engineers do to help alleviate these concerns? What can we all do to help reduce flooding?	IWRA	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Student Aircraft Builders: Everyone Can Build a Plane	Bardeen Quad	outside	"Explore the thrill of aviation in this dynamic hands-on exhibit. Student Aircraft Builders (SAB) brings the same drive and enthusiasm to this interactive exhibit as it does to the full scale plane they are currently assembling. Stop by to work with sheet metal, experiment with and test balsa wood airplane designs, and see acrobatic radio controlled airplane flights. With activities for all ages, SAB hopes to share their excitement for aviation and engineering with you. "	Student Aircraft Builders	Aerospace Engineering		Super Safety	Loomis Lab	field across the street	Safety Demonstrations for the Field of Chemical Engineering. Come learn about Safety and Sage and what we are doing to make a world safer place.	AIChE	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		Supply Chain Tetris	Transportation Building	204	"Think playing Tetris on your computer is fun? Come to IIE's exhibit and play a real-life version of this classic game! We have various ""work stations"" that simulate the operations of a distribution center. At each station try to fit a given set of objects, what we call the ""order"", into the smallest box possible as fast as you can. Be careful- your order will be immediately shipped to the customer. Saving space and time will drastically reduce your company's supply chain costs, but errors lead to unhappy customers! Come try your hand at this fun and informative supply chain challenge!"	Institute of Industrial Engineers	Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering	http://iie.ec.illinois.edu	SWE Team Tech 2013-2014: Sustainable Seat Design with John Deere	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2nd floor atrium	"Our exhibit is a project that we are working on with John Deere for our Annual Team Tech Competition. This year the project is focused on redesigning a lawn tractor seat for the John Deere tractors. This is to improve seat breathability, ergonomics, cost reduction as well as sustainability through use of different materials. The project goes through various materials and materials processing required on these seats and how to decide changes on these materials and processes."	Society of Women Engineers	Mechanical Science and Engineering		Sweet Engineering	Loomis Lab	lobby	"Those Dippin' Dots sure taste good, but how are they made in the correct shape? And how do they and other desserts, like pudding and yogurt, maintain the correct texture? Come and find out in this exhibit, where a variety of engineering methods are used to make some our most favorite sweets! See a machine illustrating the extrusion process for production of Dippin' Dots, where a delicious ice cream mixture is injected into pre-packaged shapes and then frozen at low temperatures! Also see chemical reactions illustrating the formation of emulsifiers and stabilizers in the form of alginate, a common addition to various food items, from ice creams to jams to noodles. See how salts and algae-derivatives react to form gel-like structures, giving some of our favorite foods their distinct texture!"	Omega Chi Epsilon	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		The Chemistry Behind Your Food	Loomis Lab	lobby	"The Chemistry Behind Your Food exhibit explores how the food industry uses chemistry and controls process conditions to improve food quality and increase shelf life. There will be examples of how storage containers are optimized to improve beverage shelf life. A cotton candy machine will even provide an example of how chemistry is used to make food (don't worry, there will be free samples)."	AIChE	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		The Micron: Accessibility through ingenuity	MatSE Building	1st floor	"This exhibit is to demonstrate how anyone can apply engineering to their life.Originally created so a student could pass MATH 125, a required business course, The Micron has evolved into demonstrating how anyone can apply engineering. This particular project is to build a camera that a student with vision impairment can use to view far away objects. Products like this exist, but they are large, expensive, fragile, and incompatible with most computers. The long term goal is to provide a solution to all of these problems, in one ultra-portable and robust device.The goal of this year is software. I plan to show how The Micron will function from a user's point of view. Currently, the project is being written in Arduino (C), Python, and QT. We want your opinion, use #MicronEOH on FB/Twitter to send your comments!Remember, we are not engineers."	Individual	Electrical and Computer Engineering	http://publish.illinois.edu/themicron	The Power of Diversity	Transportation Building	103	"What do a lemon, potato, and a tomato all have in common? Not only are they delicious, they can all conduct electricity! Diversity in ISE invites you to come pick your favorite fruits (and veggies) and convert them from scrumptious, nutritious snacks to fun, enlightening batteries! Can you illuminate a light bulb with just a bunch of fruit and some wire? Come on over and see for yourself!"	DISE	Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering		"The Rheology Zoo: Fluids, Solids, and Things-In-Between"	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2005	"Defying the classical definitions of fluids and solids are rheologically complex materials, also known as non-Newtonian fluids. Come experience the peculiar physics of these substances in demonstrations and hands-on demos of key rheological phenomena: fluid-to-solid transitions such as shear-thickening and viscoelasticity, the rod-climbing effect, and self-siphoning. Not only will your perspective on everyday materials such as playdoh, silly putty, cake batter, and chewing gum be transformed, but you will learn how rheology research at Illinois is impacting bioinspired engineering, modern cuisine, product design, soft robotics, and fire suppression."	Department of Mechanical Science and Engineering	Mechanical Science and Engineering		The World of Solar Energy	Mechanical Engineering Lab	1st floor atrium	"This exhibit will provide hands-on examples and demonstrations of how solar-produced electricity and heat is changing the way our world gets its energy. We'll have demonstrations of solar-powered cell-phone chargers, solar heaters and cookers, flexible and rigid solar cells, and even a do-it-yourself solar cell made from standard home ingredients such as blackberries and paint additives. This exhibit will demonstrate ways that solar power can cleanly and sustainably help meet the world's energy needs."	Mechanical Science and Engineering Department	Mechanical Science and Engineering		Thermal Conductivity	MatSE Building	1st floor north hallway	Come see how graphite (the same material in your pencil) can cut ice faster than steel!	MSE 183	Materials Science and Engineering		Three Pendulum Rotary Harmonograph	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2005	"Think you need to possess art skills to draw beautiful designs? Well, not anymore! Come see how the works of Leornado Da Vinci can be matched solely through mechanical equipment at the Freshmen Exhibit for the American Society for Mechanical Engineers. The exhibit uses lateral pendulums which swing back and forth at right angles to each other and are connected to a pen. One pendulum moves the pen from side to side, and the other moves it from front to back on a paper. A third pendulum moves a paper in circular motion, while the pen is drawing on it. The combined effect of these materials gives you the art skills you wished you possessed, without ever having to touch a piece of paper!"	American Society of Mechanical Engineers	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://asme.mechse.illinois.edu	Tissue Scaffolding	Digital Computer Lab	atrium	"Cell differentiation is the process of a cell becoming a more specialized type of cell. This process is greatly dependent on the physical factors of the cells' surroundings. Tissue scaffolds, many of which are hydrogels, can be engineered for specific types of cell differentiation. An informative display of tissue scaffolds along with various types of Jell-o for the students will highlight the difference between the hydrogels' characteristics."	Biomedical Engineering Society	Bioengineering	http://bmes.ec.illinois.edu/	Transform your Food... With Science!	Loomis Lab	lobby	"Come learn about the exciting world of molecular gastronomy, where we use chemistry to make food exciting! Find out about how science is used at some top restaurants in order to completely change the culinary experience. Stop by for a delicious treat that uses the chemistry that we demonstrate, right in front of your eyes!"	AIChE	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		Trebuchets	Bardeen Quad	north of Talbot Lab	Explore the physics behind these classic siege weapons! Designs are optimized to throw projectiles at maximized destructive range.	Engineering System Design Lab	Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering		Turning Water Into Wine	Loomis Lab	lobby	"Do you want to learn about the art of home winemaking?! Well stop by to learn about how wine is produced, from the selection of the grapes to the addition of the yeast and finally the fermentation and aging process. We will teach you about the how the process is scaled up from a home batch scale to a large winery scale. Furthermore, we will teach you about how certain alterations to the ingredients can change the identity and qualities of the wine. Finally, we will briefly discuss the exciting art of wine tasting."	AIChE	Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering		Twist in time	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	"Participants observe dye in cylinder of viscous fluid travel forward -- and then backward -- through time, while learning about the differences between laminar and turbulent flow."	IAHR	Civil and Environmental Engineering		UI Innovate	Engineering Hall	106B8	"UI Innovate emerged out of the MakerLab, the country's first business school based 3D printing lab. The club has since sought partnerships with other labs around campus that offer access to new technologies. UI Innovate seeks to introduce students to these new technologies in order to discover novel applications that will drive their proliferation. While the organization emerged out of the business school, we seek students from all backgrounds with an interest in driving technological growth. Aric Rindfleisch, marketing department head, and Vishal Sachdev, professor of business administration, advise the club."	UI Innovate			Unmanned Aerial Systems	Everitt Lab	257	"Unmanned aerial technology is changing the shape of modern skies. We demonstrate how unmanned aerial vehicles cheaper and more efficient than their manned counterparts. As a group, we build, program, test, and design unmanned aerial systems capable of autonomous waypoint flight and visual tracking. We do this to find and push the boundaries of what is possible with unmanned aerial vehicles. We will be showing our current working UAV, X8, ground control station, gimbal, and some of our software."	Aerospace Engineering	Aerospace Engineering		Video Game: Dystheism	Siebel Center	1304	"Dystheism is a 3d block-based puzzle game under development by Jack LaSota, using the Unity game engine. Includes animated violence that may not be suitable for babies."	ACM Gamebuilders	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Wall Noise Canceler	Everitt Lab	245	"Active noise canceling in free space without any need for the user to wear a device. Setup will cancel noises traveling through wall via array of microphones and speakers, and be able to cancel out noise at a programmable point in the room."	Individual	Electrical and Computer Engineering		Water-loving and Water-hating surfaces	MatSE Building	4th floor west hallway	Our project will demonstrate different materials which are hydrophilic and hydrophobic. We will use those materials on shoes and white sheet and then add water to see what will happen.	MSE 183	Materials Science and Engineering		"Water, Sewage, Life, and Pipelines"	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	"All civilizations have been restricted by their ability to obtain clean drinking water and remove sewage for their collective health. Pipeline networks have been utilized for these means in both 1st and 3rd world countries alike. Without pipelines, living in high population centers would be impossible. A table sized pipeline will show students how pipe networks behave in many different applications. The model will show the similarities between a small gravity driven water distribution system in the developing world and the enormous TARP drainage systems in Chicago. Students will learn the physics behind pipe networks, see design challenges related to these systems, and see what can happen when the systems fail."	IAHR	Civil and Environmental Engineering		WCS Sign-in	Siebel Center	1st floor west hallway	"Having become tired of long sign-in lines and messy spreadsheets, we have decided to take matters into our own hands. What better a tool to use than the computer? So we decided to embark on an adventure to explore the foundations of the internet and create the infrastructure for an integrated and easy-to-use method of signing in students to our events and keeping track of who has been to what. With the SQL and PHP at the backend and the JavaScript and HTML putting a face on it, we have built from scratch a webpage to allow for easy event registration and records. The emphasis of this project was learning about web coding, both from a beginner and advanced perspective."	Women in Computer Science	Computer Science		What is the Coriolis Effect?	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	Learn about the Coriolis Effect	IAHR	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Where Minecraft Meets Hydrology -- A study in Landscape Evolution	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	A computer simulation will allow participants to explore a landscape in first person while the landscape is transformed by rain over thousands of years. This exhibit will combine students excitement with video games with an educational experience that gets them to think about how rain and rivers shape the landscapes we live in.	IWRA	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Wind Power Technology	Everitt Lab	50	"This exhibit will demo a three-phase wind turbine generator. Visitors can expect to learn about this renewable energy technology in a variety of ways (technological, environmental, political, etc.), as well as the basics of the American power system (e.g., three-phase power, etc.)."	"Power And Energy Systems Area, ECE"	Electrical and Computer Engineering	http://energy.ece.illinois.edu/	Wind Tunnel	Hydrosystems Lab	1504	"Have you ever wondered why airplanes and space shuttles have similar shape? Why do fish have similar features? Shape matters for Aerodynamics and Hydrodynamics alike! In this exhibit we use an air tunnel to show the flow resistance for different geometrical objects. We will show the effect of shape on the maximum drag force and how it relates to real world applications such as flow around a bridge pier, spoilers on a race car, fish swimming etc!"	IAHR	Civil and Environmental Engineering		Windustry	Mechanical Engineering Lab	2005	"What's growing faster than ever all over Central Illinois? Wind Turbines. We're sure you've seen them along the interstate, if not in your own hometown. Did you ever wonder how they worked or why they aren't always spinning even on windy days? We explain all of this with our downscaled model of a wind turbine. This amazingly clean technology helps power a lot of homes so come on down and learn a thing or two about wind energy!"	American Society of Mechanical Engineers	Mechanical Science and Engineering	http://asme.mechse.illinois.edu	Write it Make it	Everitt Lab	168	"Participants will be broken into teams of two, ideally parent and sibling. The first team member (The Writer) will be shown a design make out a random craft material (Legos, Tinker Toys, Straws, Popsicle sticks, etc.). The first team member will then have five to ten minutes to create instructions of how to build the object being shown. The second team member (The Maker) will then attempt to recreate the object using the instructions given in five to ten minutes."	National Organization for Business and Engineering	Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering		Your Dads Computer Wishes it was a PLATO IV	Everitt Lab	143	"Come back in time with us, and experience computing technologies from the 1960s with the PLATO IV (Programmed Logic for Automatic Teaching Operations). At this exhibit you will be able to use it's software and learn about how it's early implementation of things like multi-user support, email, message boards, and screen sharing helped shape the computers you use today."	ECE Restoration Project	Electrical and Computer Engineering		%%%%																																			